1 CORINTHIANS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity with YHWH framework.

CH16

The grace of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with you. My love be with you all in the Anointed Yeshua. Amen.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
If anyone has no love for the Lord let him be accursed. Our Lord come! Maranatha.
Be watchful stand firm in the faith act like men be strong. Let all that you do be done in love.
Now concerning the contribution for the saints as I directed the churches of Galatia so you also are to do. On the first day of every week each of you is to put something aside and store it up as he may prosper so that there will be no collecting when I come. And when I arrive I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem. If it seems advisable that I should go also they will accompany me.
I will visit you after passing through Macedonia for I intend to pass through Macedonia and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter so that you may help me on my journey wherever I go. For I do not want to see you now just in passing. I hope to spend some time with you if the Lord permits. But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost for a wide door for effective work has opened to me and there are many adversaries.
Now concerning our brother Apollos I strongly urged him to visit you with the other brothers but it was not at all his will to come now. He will come when he has opportunity.
Be watchful stand firm in the faith act like men be strong.
The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Prisca together with the church in their house send you hearty greetings in the Lord.
I urge you brothers you know the household of Stephanas that they were the first converts in Achaia and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints. I urge you to submit to such as these and to everyone who works and labors with them. I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus because they have made up for your absence for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. So give recognition to such people.
Now I urge you brothers you know the household of Stephanas…

CH15

Therefore my beloved brothers be steadfast immovable always abounding in the work of the Lord knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Thanks be to YHWH who gives us the victory through our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. The sting of death is sin and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to YHWH who gives us the victory through our Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
When the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality then shall come to pass the saying that is written “Death is swallowed up in victory. O death where is your victory? O death where is your sting?”
It is sown a natural body it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body there is also a spiritual body. Thus it is written “The first man Adam became a living being” the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first but the natural and then the spiritual. The first man was from the earth a man of dust the second man is from heaven. As was the man of dust so also are those who are of the dust and as is the man of heaven so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.
So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness it is raised in power.
But someone will ask “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?” You foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. And what you sow is not the body that is to be but a bare kernel perhaps of wheat or of some other grain. But YHWH gives it a body as He has chosen and to each kind of seed its own body.
Now if the Anointed is proclaimed as raised from the dead how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead then the Anointed has not been raised. And if the Anointed has not been raised then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be misrepresenting YHWH because we testified about YHWH that He raised the Anointed whom He did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised not even the Anointed has been raised. And if the Anointed has not been raised your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in the Anointed have perished. If in this life only we have hoped in the Anointed we are of all people most to be pitied. But in fact the Anointed has been raised from the dead the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received that the Anointed died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures that He was buried that He was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures and that He appeared to Cephas then to the twelve. Then He appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time most of whom are still alive though some have fallen asleep. Then He appeared to James then to all the apostles. Last of all as to one untimely born He appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles unworthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of YHWH. But by the grace of YHWH I am what I am and His grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary I worked harder than any of them though it was not I but the grace of YHWH that is with me. Whether then it was I or they so we preach and so you believed.
Now I would remind you brothers of the gospel I preached to you which you received in which you stand and by which you are being saved if you hold fast to the word I preached to you — unless you believed in vain.

CH14

So then brothers earnestly desire to prophesy and do not forbid speaking in tongues. But all things should be done decently and in order.
If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual he should acknowledge that what I am writing to you is a command of the Lord. If anyone does not recognize this he is not recognized.
What then brothers? When you come together each one has a hymn a lesson a revelation a tongue or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up. If any speak in a tongue let there be only two or at most three and each in turn and let someone interpret. But if there is no one to interpret let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to YHWH. Let two or three prophets speak and let the others weigh what is said. If a revelation is made to another sitting by let the first be silent. For you can all prophesy one by one so that all may learn and all be encouraged. And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets. For YHWH is not a YHWH of confusion but of peace.
Women should keep silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak but should be in submission as the Law also says. If there is anything they desire to learn let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
Or was it from you that the word of YHWH came? Or are you the only ones it has reached? If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual he should acknowledge that what I am writing to you is a command of the Lord.
For YHWH is not a YHWH of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints women should keep silent in the churches.
What then brothers? When you come together each one has a hymn a lesson a revelation a tongue or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
Pursue love and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to YHWH for no one understands him but he utters mysteries in the Spirit. On the other hand the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself but the one who prophesies builds up the church. Now I want you all to speak in tongues but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues unless someone interprets so that the church may be built up.

CH13

So now faith hope and love abide these three but the greatest of these is love.
When I was a child I spoke like a child I thought like a child I reasoned like a child. When I became a man I gave up childish ways. For now we see in a mirror dimly but then face to face. Now I know in part then I shall know fully even as I have been fully known.
Love never ends. As for prophecies they will pass away as for tongues they will cease as for knowledge it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part but when the perfect comes the partial will pass away.
Love bears all things believes all things hopes all things endures all things.
It does not rejoice at wrongdoing but rejoices with the truth.
It is not irritable or resentful.
It does not insist on its own way.
It is not arrogant or rude.
It is not envious.
Love is patient and kind.
If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but have not love I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains but have not love I am nothing. If I give away all I have and if I deliver up my body to be burned but have not love I gain nothing.

CH12

But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
Now you are the body of the Anointed and individually members of it. And YHWH has appointed in the church first apostles second prophets third teachers then miracles then gifts of healing helps administrations and various kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?
For the body does not consist of one member but of many. If the foot should say “Because I am not a hand I do not belong to the body” that would not make it any less a part of the body. And if the ear should say “Because I am not an eye I do not belong to the body” that would not make it any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear where would be the sense of smell? But as it is YHWH arranged the members in the body each one of them as He chose. If all were a single member where would the body be? As it is there are many parts yet one body. The eye cannot say to the hand “I have no need of you” nor again the head to the feet “I have no need of you.” On the contrary the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty which our more presentable parts do not require. But YHWH has so composed the body giving greater honor to the part that lacked it that there may be no division in the body but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers all suffer together. If one member is honored all rejoice together.
For just as the body is one and has many members and all the members of the body though many are one body so it is with the Anointed. For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body — Jews or Greeks slaves or free — and all were made to drink of one Spirit.
Now there are varieties of gifts but the same Spirit. There are varieties of service but the same Lord. There are varieties of activities but it is the same YHWH who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
Now concerning spiritual gifts brothers I do not want you to be uninformed. You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols however you were led. Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of YHWH ever says “Yeshua is accursed” and no one can say “Yeshua is Lord” except in the Holy Spirit.

CH11

But if anyone is hungry let him eat at home so that when you come together it will not be for judgment. About the other things I will give directions when I come.
For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup you proclaim the Lord’s death until He comes. Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly we would not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world.
For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you that the Lord Yeshua on the night when He was betrayed took bread and when He had given thanks He broke it and said “This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” In the same way also He took the cup after supper saying “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me.”
When you come together it is not the Lord’s supper that you eat. For in eating each one goes ahead with his own meal and one is hungry and another is drunk. What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of YHWH and humiliate those who have nothing?
But in the following instructions I do not commend you because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse.
For a man ought not to cover his head since he is the image and glory of YHWH but woman is the glory of man. For man was not made from woman but woman from man. Neither was man created for woman but woman for man. That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. Nevertheless in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman for as woman was made from man so man is now born of woman. And all things are from YHWH.
Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a wife to pray to YHWH with her head uncovered? Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him but if a woman has long hair it is her glory? For her hair is given to her for a covering.
We have no such practice nor do the churches of YHWH.
But every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head — it is the same as if her head were shaven. For if a wife will not cover her head then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a wife to cut off her hair or shave her head let her cover her head. For a man ought not to cover his head since he is the image and glory of YHWH.
Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I delivered them to you. But I want you to understand that the head of every man is the Anointed the head of a wife is her husband and the head of the Anointed is YHWH.

CH10

Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of YHWH just as I try to please everyone in everything I do not seeking my own advantage but that of many that they may be saved. Be imitators of me as I am of the Anointed.
The cup of blessing that we bless is it not a participation in the blood of the Anointed? The bread that we break is it not a participation in the body of the Anointed? Because there is one bread we who are many are one body for we all partake of the one bread.
What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything or that an idol is anything? No I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to YHWH. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?
All things are lawful but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful but not all things build up. Let no one seek his own good but the good of his neighbor. Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience for the earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof. If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience. But if someone says to you “This has been offered in sacrifice” then do not eat it for the sake of the one who informed you and for the sake of conscience. I do not mean your conscience but his. For why should my liberty be determined by someone else’s conscience? If I partake with thankfulness why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks? So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do do all to the glory of YHWH.
Therefore my beloved flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless…
Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. YHWH is faithful and He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability but with the temptation He will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it.
Now these things happened to them as an example but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come.
We must not put the Anointed to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents nor grumble as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.
We must not be idolaters as some of them were. As it is written “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.” We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day.
For I do not want you to be unaware brothers that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea and all ate the same spiritual food and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them and the Rock was the Anointed. Nevertheless with most of them YHWH was not pleased for they were overthrown in the wilderness.

CH9

I have become all things to all people that by all means I might save some. I do it all for the sake of the gospel that I may share with them in its blessings.
To the Jews I became as a Jew so that I might win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law though not being myself under the law that I might win those under the law. To those outside the law I became as one outside the law not being outside the law of YHWH but under the law of the Anointed that I might win those outside the law. To the weak I became weak that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people that by all means I might save some.
For though I am free from all I have made myself a servant to all that I might win more of them.
For if I preach the gospel that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! For if I do this of my own will I have a reward but if not of my own will I am still entrusted with a stewardship. What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel.
Do you not know that in a race all the runners run but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath but we an imperishable. So I do not run aimlessly. I do not box as one beating the air. But I discipline my body and keep it under control lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.
For though I am free from all I have made myself a servant to all…
If others share this rightful claim on you do not we even more? Nevertheless we have not made use of this right but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of the Anointed. Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings? In the same way the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.
Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Yeshua our Lord? Are not you my workmanship in the Lord? If to others I am not an apostle at least I am to you for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.

CH8

Therefore if food makes my brother stumble I will never eat meat lest I cause my brother to fall.
Thus sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak you sin against the Anointed. Therefore if food makes my brother stumble I will never eat meat lest I cause my brother to fall.
However not all possess this knowledge. But some through former association with idols eat food as really offered to an idol and their conscience being weak is defiled. Food will not commend us to YHWH. We are no worse off if we do not eat and no better off if we do. But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol’s temple will he not be encouraged if his conscience is weak to eat food offered to idols? And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed the brother for whom the Anointed died.
Now concerning food offered to idols we know that “an idol has no real existence” and that “there is no YHWH but one.” For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth — as indeed there are many “gods” and many “lords” — yet for us there is one YHWH the Father from whom are all things and for whom we exist and one Lord Yeshua the Anointed through whom are all things and through whom we exist.
Now concerning food offered to idols: we know that all of us possess knowledge. This knowledge puffs up but love builds up. If anyone imagines that he knows something he does not yet know as he ought to know. But if anyone loves YHWH he is known by Him.

CH7

Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him and to which YHWH has called him. This is my rule in all the churches.
Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him and to which YHWH has called him. This is my rule in all the churches. Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision but keeping the commandments of YHWH. Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called. Were you a bondservant when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom avail yourself of the opportunity. For he who was called in the Lord as a bondservant is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a bondservant of the Anointed. You were bought with a price. Do not become bondservants of men. So brothers in whatever condition each was called there let him remain with YHWH.
To the rest I say I not the Lord that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever and he consents to live with her she should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean but as it is they are holy. But if the unbelieving partner separates let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. YHWH has called you to peace. For how do you know wife whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know husband whether you will save your wife?
To the married I give this charge not I but the Lord the wife should not separate from her husband but if she does she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband and the husband should not divorce his wife.
Now concerning the matters about which you wrote it is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman. But because of the temptation to sexual immorality each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights and likewise the wife to her husband. For the wife does not have authority over her own body but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body but the wife does. Do not deprive one another except perhaps by agreement for a limited time that you may devote yourselves to prayer but then come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. This I say by way of concession not of command. I wish that all were as I myself am. But each has his own gift from YHWH one of one kind and one of another.
To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am. But if they cannot exercise self-control they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion.

CH6

You are not your own for you were bought with a price. So glorify YHWH in your body.
Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you whom you have from YHWH? You are not your own for you were bought with a price. So glorify YHWH in your body.
The body is not meant for sexual immorality but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. YHWH raised the Lord and will also raise us up by His power. Do you not know that your bodies are members of the Anointed? Shall I then take the members of the Anointed and make them members of a prostitute? Never! Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For as it is written “The two will become one flesh.” But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with Him.
All things are lawful for me but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me but I will not be dominated by anything.
Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of YHWH? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who practice homosexuality nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor revilers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of YHWH. And such were some of you. But you were washed you were sanctified you were justified in the name of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed and by the Spirit of our YHWH.
To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? But you yourselves wrong and defraud — even your own brothers!
To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you…
When one of you has a grievance against another does he dare go to law before the unrighteous instead of the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you are you incompetent to try trivial cases? Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more then matters pertaining to this life! So if you have such cases why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church? I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers but brother goes to law against brother and that before unbelievers?

CH5

Purge the evil person from among you.
For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? YHWH judges those outside. Remove the evil person from among you.
I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people — not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world or the greedy and swindlers or idolaters since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed or is an idolater reviler drunkard or swindler — not even to eat with such a one.
Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump as you really are unleavened. For the Anointed our Passover lamb has been sacrificed. Let us therefore celebrate the festival not with the old leaven the leaven of malice and evil but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans for a man has his father’s wife. And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you.
For though absent in body I am present in spirit and as if present I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Yeshua and my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Yeshua you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.

CH4

I have applied all this to myself and Apollos for your benefit brothers that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Already you have all you want. Already you have become rich. Without us you have become kings. And would that you did reign so that we might share the rule with you. For I think that YHWH has exhibited us apostles as last of all like men sentenced to death because we have become a spectacle to the world to angels and to men. We are fools for the Anointed’s sake but you are wise in the Anointed. We are weak but you are strong. You are held in honor but we in disrepute. To the present hour we hunger and thirst we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless and we labor working with our own hands. When reviled we bless when persecuted we endure when slandered we entreat. We have become and are still like the scum of the world the refuse of all things.
I do not write these things to make you ashamed but to admonish you as my beloved children. For though you have countless guides in the Anointed you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in the Anointed Yeshua through the gospel. I urge you then be imitators of me. That is why I sent you Timothy my beloved and faithful child in the Lord to remind you of my ways in the Anointed as I teach them everywhere in every church.
I have applied all this to myself and Apollos for your benefit…
I am writing these things to you not to shame you but to warn you as my dear children. Even if you had ten thousand guardians in the Anointed you do not have many fathers for in the Anointed Yeshua I became your father through the gospel. Therefore I urge you to imitate me. For this reason I have sent to you Timothy my son whom I love who is faithful in the Lord. He will remind you of my way of life in the Anointed Yeshua which agrees with what I teach everywhere in every church.
Some of you have become arrogant as if I were not coming to you. But I will come to you very soon if the Lord is willing and then I will find out not only how these arrogant people are talking but what power they have. For the kingdom of YHWH is not a matter of talk but of power. What do you prefer? Shall I come to you with a rod or in love and with a gentle spirit?
I have sent Timothy to you.
I am writing these things…

CH3

So let no one boast in men. For all things are yours whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future — all are yours and you are the Anointed’s and the Anointed is YHWH’s.
For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid which is Yeshua the Anointed. Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold silver precious stones wood hay straw each one’s work will become manifest for the Day will disclose it because it will be revealed by fire and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives he will receive a reward. If anyone’s work is burned up he will suffer loss though he himself will be saved but only as through fire.
According to the grace of YHWH given to me like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it.
For we are God’s fellow workers. You are God’s field God’s building.
I planted Apollos watered but YHWH gave the growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything but only YHWH who gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one and each will receive his wages according to his labor.
But I brothers could not address you as spiritual people but as people of the flesh as infants in the Anointed. I fed you with milk not solid food for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? For when one says “I follow Paul” and another “I follow Apollos” are you not being merely human?
But I brothers could not address you as spiritual people…

CH2

These things YHWH has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything even the depths of YHWH. For who knows a person’s thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of YHWH except the Spirit of YHWH. Now we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit who is from YHWH that we might understand the things freely given us by YHWH. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of YHWH for they are folly to him and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things but is himself to be judged by no one. “For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?” But we have the mind of the Anointed.
Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age who are doomed to pass away. But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of YHWH which YHWH decreed before the ages for our glory. None of the rulers of this age understood this for if they had they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written “What no eye has seen nor ear heard nor the heart of man imagined what YHWH has prepared for those who love Him” — these things YHWH has revealed to us through the Spirit.
And I when I came to you brothers did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of YHWH with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Yeshua the Anointed and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of YHWH.

CH1

So that no one may boast in the presence of YHWH. And because of Him you are in the Anointed Yeshua who became to us wisdom from YHWH righteousness and sanctification and redemption so that as it is written “Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord.”
For consider your calling brothers not many of you were wise according to worldly standards not many were powerful not many were of noble birth. But YHWH chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. YHWH chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. YHWH chose what is low and despised in the world even things that are not to bring to nothing things that are so that no human being might boast in the presence of YHWH.
Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not YHWH made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of YHWH the world did not know YHWH through wisdom it pleased YHWH through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom but we preach the Anointed crucified a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks the Anointed the power of YHWH and the wisdom of YHWH. For the foolishness of YHWH is wiser than men and the weakness of YHWH is stronger than men.
For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing but to us who are being saved it is the power of YHWH. For it is written “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart.”
I appeal to you brothers by the name of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Chloe’s people that there is quarreling among you my brothers. What I mean is that each one of you says “I follow Paul” or “I follow Apollos” or “I follow Cephas” or “I follow the Anointed.” Is the Anointed divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank YHWH that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. For the Anointed did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel and not with words of eloquent wisdom lest the cross of the Anointed be emptied of its power.
Paul called by the will of YHWH to be an apostle of the Anointed Yeshua and our brother Sosthenes to the church of YHWH that is in Corinth to those sanctified in the Anointed Yeshua called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed both their Lord and ours. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.

CH0 Introduction

I always thank my God for you because of His grace given you in Yeshua the Anointed. For in Him you have been enriched in every way — in all your speaking and in all your knowledge — because our testimony about the Anointed was confirmed in you. Therefore you do not lack any spiritual gift as you eagerly wait for our Lord Yeshua the Anointed to be revealed. He will also keep you firm to the end, so that you will be blameless on the day of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. God is faithful, who has called you into fellowship with His Son, Yeshua the Anointed our Lord.
To the church of God in Corinth, to those sanctified in Yeshua the Anointed and called to be His holy people, together with all those everywhere who call on the name of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed — their Lord and ours: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Paul, called to be an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed by the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes, to the church of God in Corinth…
