1 ENOCH 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Ethiopic / Aramaic / Greek manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.


And the righteous shall be glad and rejoice in the light of YHWH forever. The elect shall inherit the earth and dwell therein in peace and joy. The name of YHWH shall be praised among all generations and all the holy ones shall bless Him. Peace to the righteous and salvation to those who walk in the ways of the Most High. This is the end of the vision of Enoch the scribe.
The Lord of Spirits will execute judgment upon all and the wicked shall be driven into the darkness and the abyss while the righteous shall shine like the stars forever. The Son of Man sits upon the throne of glory and all the kings and mighty ones shall fall down before Him and worship. The books are opened and the deeds of all flesh are weighed. The Elect One judges the nations and the Watchers receive their eternal sentence.
In those days the Son of Man was named before the Head of Days and the stars and the righteous rejoice in His light. The heaven and earth are transformed and the righteous dwell in eternal light. The elect ones stand before the throne and the books of the living are opened.
And I Enoch saw the secrets of the lightning and the thunder the chambers of the hail and the storehouses of the snow the foundations of the mountains and the rivers of fire. I saw the angels who rule the seasons and the courses of the stars. And the angel showed me all the hidden things of heaven and earth.
And the angel took me and showed me the place of the righteous and the place of the wicked the tree of life and the tree of wisdom. I saw the fallen Watchers bound in the valleys of fire and the women who sinned with them suffering torment. I saw the giants and the spirits that proceed from them afflicting mankind until the day of judgment.
And in the days of Jared my father the Watchers descended upon Mount Hermon and took wives among the daughters of men and taught them forbidden arts and sorcery. They begat giants who devoured mankind and filled the earth with violence and blood. And the earth cried out to heaven and the four archangels brought the cry before the Most High.
In the beginning when the children of men multiplied the Watchers the sons of heaven saw the daughters of men and lusted after them. And they said to one another “Come let us choose wives from among the children of men and beget children.” And two hundred of them descended upon Mount Hermon in the days of Jared.
The words of the blessing of Enoch according to which he blessed the elect and righteous who will be living in the day of tribulation when all the wicked and godless are to be removed.

The words of blessing of Enoch according to which he blessed the elect and the righteous who will be living in the day of tribulation, when all the wicked and godless are to be removed. And Enoch, a righteous man, saw the vision of the Holy One in the heavens.
And behold, the Great and Holy One comes forth from His dwelling, and the God of the world treads upon Mount Sinai, appears from His camp, and appears in the strength of His might from the highest heaven.
And all shall be afraid, and the Watchers shall quake, and great fear and trembling shall seize them unto the ends of the earth. And the high mountains shall be shaken, and the high hills shall be made low, and they shall melt like wax before the flame.
And the earth shall be wholly rent in sunder, and all that is upon the earth shall perish, and there shall be a judgment upon all.
But with the righteous He will make peace, and will protect the elect, and mercy shall be upon them. And they shall all belong to YHWH, and they shall prosper, and they shall all be blessed. And He will help them all, and light shall appear unto them, and He will make peace with them.
And behold! He comes with ten thousands of His holy ones to execute judgment upon all, and to destroy all the ungodly: and to convict all flesh of all the works of their ungodliness which they have ungodly committed, and of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
The blessing of Enoch: with which he blessed the elect and righteous, who will be living in the day of tribulation.
