1 JOHN

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH5

Little children keep yourselves from idols.
We know that everyone who has been born of YHWH does not keep on sinning but He who was born of YHWH protects him and evil one does not touch him. We know that we are from YHWH and whole world lies in power of evil one. We know that Son of YHWH has come and has given us understanding so that we may know Him who is true and we are in Him who is true in His Son Yeshua the Anointed. This is true YHWH and eternal life.
This is confidence that we have toward YHWH that if we ask anything according to His will He hears us. And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask we know that we have requests that we have asked of Him.
If anyone sees his brother committing sin not leading to death he shall ask and YHWH will give him life — to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin but there is sin that does not lead to death.
Whoever has Son has life. Whoever does not have Son of YHWH does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in name of Son of YHWH that you may know that you have eternal life.
For this is love of YHWH that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of YHWH overcomes world. And this is victory that has overcome world — our faith. Who is it that overcomes world except one who believes that Yeshua is Son of YHWH?
This is He who came by water and blood — Yeshua the Anointed. Not by water only but by water and blood. And Spirit is one who testifies because Spirit is truth. There are three that testify in heaven: Father Word and Holy Spirit and these three are one. There are three that testify on earth: Spirit water and blood and these three agree as one.
Whoever believes in Son of YHWH has testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe YHWH has made Him liar because he has not believed in testimony that YHWH has borne about His Son. And this is testimony that YHWH has borne about His Son.

CH4

If anyone says “I love YHWH” and hates his brother he is liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love YHWH whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from Him: whoever loves YHWH must also love his brother.
There is no fear in love but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because He first loved us.
Beloved let us love one another for love is from YHWH and whoever loves has been born of YHWH and knows YHWH. Whoever does not love does not know YHWH because YHWH is love. In this love of YHWH was made manifest among us that YHWH sent His only Son into world so that we might live through Him. In this is love not that we have loved YHWH but that He loved us and sent His Son as propitiation for our sins.
By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us because He has given us of His Spirit. Whoever confesses that Yeshua is Son of YHWH YHWH abides in him and he in YHWH. So we have come to know and to believe love that YHWH has for us.
Beloved if YHWH so loved us we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen YHWH. If we love one another YHWH abides in us and His love is perfected in us.
By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us because He has given us of His Spirit.
Every spirit that confesses that Yeshua the Anointed has come in flesh is from YHWH and every spirit that does not confess Yeshua is not from YHWH. This is spirit of antichrist which you heard was coming and now is in world already.
Little children you are from YHWH and have overcome them for He who is in you is greater than he who is in world. They are from world therefore they speak from world and world listens to them. We are from YHWH. Whoever knows YHWH listens to us. Whoever is not from YHWH does not listen to us. By this we know spirit of truth and spirit of error.
Beloved do not believe every spirit but test spirits to see whether they are from YHWH for many false prophets have gone out into world.

CH3

And by this we know that He abides in us by Spirit whom He has given us.
And whatever we ask we receive from Him because we keep His commandments and do what pleases Him. And this is His commandment that we believe in name of His Son Yeshua the Anointed and love one another just as He commanded us. Whoever keeps His commandments abides in Him and He in him. And by this we know that He abides in us.
Beloved if our heart does not condemn us we have confidence before YHWH.
By this we shall know that we are of truth and reassure our heart before Him.
Little children let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.
By this we know love that He laid down His life for us and we ought to lay down our lives for brothers.
We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death.
We should not be like Cain who was of evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were evil and his brother’s righteous.
For this is message that you have heard from beginning that we should love one another.
By this it is evident who are children of YHWH and who are children of devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of YHWH nor is one who does not love his brother.
No one born of YHWH makes practice of sinning for His seed abides in him and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of YHWH.
Everyone who makes practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness.
And everyone who thus hopes in Him purifies himself as He is pure.
Beloved we are YHWH’s children now and what we will be has not yet appeared but we know that when He appears we shall be like Him because we shall see Him as He is.
See what kind of love Father has given to us that we should be called children of YHWH and so we are. Reason why world does not know us is that it did not know Him.

CH2

Little children it is last hour and as you have heard that antichrist is coming so now many antichrists have come. Therefore we know it is last hour. They went out from us but they were not of us. For if they had been of us they would have continued with us. But they went out that it might become plain that they all are not of us.
But you have been anointed by Holy One and you all have knowledge. I write to you not because you do not know truth but because you know it and because no lie is of truth. Who is liar but one who denies that Yeshua is Anointed? This is antichrist he who denies Father and Son. No one who denies Son has Father. Whoever confesses Son has Father also.
I write to you fathers because you know Him who is from beginning. I write to you young men because you have overcome evil one. I write to you children because you know Father. I write to you young men because you are strong and word of YHWH abides in you and you have overcome evil one.
I am writing to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin we have advocate with Father Yeshua the Anointed righteous one. He is propitiation for our sins and not for ours only but also for sins of whole world.
Whoever says he abides in Him ought to walk in same way in which He walked.
And by this we know that we have come to know Him if we keep His commandments. Whoever says “I know Him” but does not keep His commandments is liar and truth is not in him. But whoever keeps His word in him truly love of YHWH is perfected. By this we may know that we are in Him.
Do not love world or things in world. If anyone loves world love of Father is not in him. For all that is in world desires of flesh and desires of eyes and pride of life — is not from Father but is from world. And world is passing away along with its desires but whoever does will of YHWH abides forever.
I am writing these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. But anointing that you received from Him abides in you and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as His anointing teaches you about all things and is true and is no lie — just as it has taught you abide in Him.
And now little children abide in Him so that when He appears we may have confidence and not shrink from Him in shame at His coming.

CH1

If we say we have not sinned we make Him liar and His word is not in us. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have no sin we deceive ourselves and truth is not in us.
But if we walk in light as He is in light we have fellowship with one another and blood of Yeshua His Son cleanses us from all sin.
If we say we have fellowship with Him while we walk in darkness we lie and do not practice truth.
That which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you so that you too may have fellowship with us and indeed our fellowship is with Father and with His Son Yeshua the Anointed. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.
The life was made manifest and we have seen it and testify to it and proclaim to you eternal life which was with Father and was made manifest to us.
That which was from beginning which we have heard which we have seen with our eyes which we looked upon and have touched with our hands concerning word of life.
That which was from beginning which we have heard which we have seen with our eyes which we looked upon and have touched with our hands concerning word of life — we proclaim to you.

CH0 Introduction

We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Yeshua the Anointed. We write this to make our joy complete.
That which we have seen and heard we proclaim to you also, so that you too may have fellowship with us.
The life appeared; we have seen it and testify to it, and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and has appeared to us.
We declare to you what was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have looked at and our hands have touched — this we proclaim concerning the Word of life.
The life appeared; we have seen it and testify to it, and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and has appeared to us.
We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Yeshua the Anointed. We write this to make our joy complete.
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at and our hands have touched — this we proclaim concerning the Word of life.
