1 PETER

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.

CH5

To Him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
And after you have suffered a little while the YHWH of all grace who has called you to His eternal glory in the Anointed Yeshua will Himself restore confirm strengthen and establish you.
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of YHWH so that at the proper time He may exalt you casting all your anxieties on Him because He cares for you. Be sober-minded be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Resist him firm in your faith knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world.
Likewise you who are younger be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves all of you with humility toward one another for YHWH opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.
Shepherd the flock of YHWH that is among you exercising oversight not under compulsion but willingly as YHWH would have you not for shameful gain but eagerly not domineering over those in your charge but being examples to the flock. And when the chief Shepherd appears you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
So I exhort the elders among you as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of the Anointed as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed.

CH4

Therefore let those who suffer according to YHWH’s will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.
Beloved do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share the Anointed’s sufferings that you may also rejoice and be glad when His glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of the Anointed you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of YHWH rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian let him not be ashamed but let him glorify YHWH in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of YHWH and if it begins with us what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of YHWH? And “If the righteous is scarcely saved what will become of the ungodly and the sinner?” Therefore let those who suffer according to YHWH’s will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.
The end of all things is at hand therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all keep loving one another earnestly for love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a gift use it to serve one another as good stewards of YHWH’s varied grace: whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of YHWH whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that YHWH supplies — in order that in everything YHWH may be glorified through Yeshua the Anointed. To Him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Since therefore the Anointed suffered in the flesh arm yourselves with the same way of thinking for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of YHWH. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do living in sensuality passions drunkenness orgies drinking parties and lawless idolatry. With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery and they malign you but they will give account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead that though judged in the flesh the way people are they might live in the spirit the way YHWH does.

CH3

Who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of YHWH with angels authorities and powers having been subjected to Him.
Baptism which corresponds to this now saves you not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to YHWH for a good conscience through the resurrection of Yeshua the Anointed.
And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you — not the removal of dirt from the body but the pledge of a clear conscience toward YHWH. It saves you by the resurrection of Yeshua the Anointed who has gone into heaven and is at YHWH’s right hand — with angels authorities and powers in submission to Him.
And if you suffer for what is right you are blessed. Do not fear their threats do not be frightened. But in your hearts revere the Anointed as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect keeping a clear conscience so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in the Anointed may be ashamed of their slander. For it is better if it is YHWH’s will to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
For the Anointed also suffered once for sins the righteous for the unrighteous to bring you to YHWH. He was put to death in the body but made alive in the Spirit. After being made alive He went and made proclamation to the imprisoned spirits — to those who were disobedient long ago when YHWH waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. In it only a few people eight in all were saved through water.
Finally all of you be like-minded be sympathetic love one another be compassionate and humble. Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult. On the contrary repay evil with blessing because to this you were called so that you may inherit a blessing.
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous and His ears are attentive to their prayer but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.
For whoever would love life and see good days must keep their tongue from evil and their lips from deceitful speech. They must turn from evil and do good they must seek peace and pursue it.
Who is going to harm you if you are eager to do good? But even if you should suffer for what is right you are blessed.
Wives in the same way submit yourselves to your own husbands so that if any of them do not believe the word they may be won over without words by the behavior of their wives when they see the purity and reverence of your lives. Your beauty should not come from outward adornment such as elaborate hairstyles and the wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes. Rather it should be that of your inner self the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit which is of great worth in YHWH’s sight. For this is how the holy women of old who put their hope in YHWH used to adorn themselves. They submitted themselves to their own husbands like Sarah who obeyed Abraham and called him her lord. You are her daughters if you do what is right and do not give way to fear. Husbands in the same way be considerate as you live with your wives and treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life so that nothing will hinder your prayers.

CH2

For you were like sheep going astray but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
For it is better to suffer for doing good if that should be YHWH’s will than for doing evil. For the Anointed also suffered once for sins the righteous for the unrighteous that He might bring us to YHWH being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit in which He went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison because they formerly disobeyed when YHWH’s patience waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared in which a few that is eight persons were brought safely through water. Baptism which corresponds to this now saves you not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to YHWH for a good conscience through the resurrection of Yeshua the Anointed who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of YHWH with angels authorities and powers having been subjected to Him.
Beloved I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable so that when they speak against you as evildoers they may see your good deeds and glorify YHWH on the day of visitation.
Be subject for the Lord’s sake to every human institution whether it be to the emperor as supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of YHWH that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil but living as servants of YHWH. Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear YHWH. Honor the emperor.
You are a chosen race a royal priesthood a holy nation a people for His own possession that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Once you were not a people but now you are YHWH’s people. Once you had not received mercy but now you have received mercy.
Behold I am laying in Zion a stone a cornerstone chosen and precious and whoever believes in Him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe but for those who do not believe “The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone” and “A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense.” They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do.
But you are a chosen race a royal priesthood a holy nation a people for His own possession…
For it stands in Scripture “Behold I am laying in Zion a stone a cornerstone chosen and precious and whoever believes in Him will not be put to shame.”
As you come to Him a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of YHWH chosen and precious you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to YHWH through Yeshua the Anointed.
So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow up into salvation — if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.

CH1

Though you have not seen Him you love Him. Though you do not now see Him you believe in Him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory obtaining the outcome of your faith the salvation of your souls.
Concerning this salvation the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully inquiring what person or time the Spirit of the Anointed in them was indicating when He predicted the sufferings of the Anointed and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven things into which angels long to look.
Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love love one another earnestly from a pure heart since you have been born again not of perishable seed but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of YHWH for “All flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls but the word of the Lord remains forever.” And this word is the good news that was preached to you.
As obedient children do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance but as He who called you is holy you also be holy in all your conduct since it is written “You shall be holy for I am holy.” And if you call on Him as Father who judges impartially according to each one’s deeds conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers not with perishable things such as silver or gold but with the precious blood of the Anointed like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you who through Him are believers in YHWH who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory so that your faith and hope are in YHWH.
Therefore preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Yeshua the Anointed. As obedient children do not be conformed…
Blessed be the YHWH and Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed! According to His great mercy He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Yeshua the Anointed from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable undefiled and unfading kept in heaven for you who by YHWH’s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice though now for a little while if necessary you have been grieved by various trials so that the tested genuineness of your faith — more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire — may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Yeshua the Anointed.
Peter an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed to those who are elect exiles of the Dispersion in Pontus Galatia Cappadocia Asia and Bithynia according to the foreknowledge of YHWH the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Yeshua the Anointed and for sprinkling with His blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.

CH0 Introduction

Grace and peace be yours in abundance.
To God’s elect, exiles scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to be obedient to Yeshua the Anointed and sprinkled with His blood.
Peter, an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed.
To those who through the righteousness of our God and Savior Yeshua the Anointed have received a faith as precious as ours: Grace and peace be yours in abundance through the knowledge of God and of Yeshua our Lord.
Peter, an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed, to God’s elect, exiles scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to be obedient to Yeshua the Anointed and sprinkled with His blood.
Grace and peace be yours in abundance.
