1 THESSALONIANS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH5

The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with you.
Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances for this is the will of YHWH in the Anointed Yeshua for you. Do not quench the Spirit. Do not despise prophecies but test everything. Hold fast to what is good. Abstain from every form of evil.
Now may the YHWH of peace Himself sanctify you completely and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it.
Brothers pray for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
And we urge you brothers to admonish the idle encourage the fainthearted help the weak be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone.
For YHWH has not destined us for wrath but to obtain salvation through our Lord Yeshua the Anointed who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with Him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing.
But since we belong to the day let us be sober having put on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
But you are not in darkness brothers for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do but let us keep awake and be sober.
Now concerning the times and the seasons brothers you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying “There is peace and security” then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman and they will not escape.

CH4

Therefore encourage one another with these words.
And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore encourage one another with these words. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command with the voice of an archangel and with the sound of the trumpet of YHWH. And the dead in the Anointed will rise first. Then we who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air and so we will always be with the Lord.
But we do not want you to be uninformed brothers about those who are asleep that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Yeshua died and rose again even so through Yeshua YHWH will bring with Him those who have fallen asleep.
Now concerning brotherly love you have no need for anyone to write to you for you yourselves have been taught by YHWH to love one another for that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you brothers to do this more and more and to aspire to live quietly and to mind your own affairs and to work with your hands as we instructed you so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.
For this is the will of YHWH your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know YHWH that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter because the Lord is an avenger in all these things as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. For YHWH has not called us for impurity but in holiness. Therefore whoever disregards this disregards not man but YHWH who gives His Holy Spirit to you.
Finally then brothers we ask and urge you in the Lord Yeshua that as you received from us how you ought to walk and to please YHWH just as you are doing that you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Yeshua.

CH3

Now may our YHWH and Father Himself and our Lord Yeshua direct our way to you and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you so that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our YHWH and Father at the coming of our Lord Yeshua with all His saints.
For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Yeshua.
For this reason when I could bear it no longer I sent to learn about your faith for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you for this reason brothers in all our distress and affliction we have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. For what thanksgiving can we return to YHWH for you for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our YHWH as we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith.
Therefore when we could bear it no longer we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone and we sent Timothy our brother and co-worker for YHWH in the gospel of the Anointed to establish and exhort you in your faith that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were with you we told you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction just as it has come to pass and as you know.
But we have been comforted about you through your faith.
For this reason when I could bear it no longer I sent…
And you became imitators of us and of the Lord for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia but your faith in YHWH has gone forth everywhere so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you and how you turned to YHWH from idols to serve the living and true YHWH and to wait for His Son from heaven whom He raised from the dead Yeshua who delivers us from the wrath to come.
For you know brothers that our coming to you was not in vain. But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi as you know we had boldness in our YHWH to declare to you the gospel of YHWH in the midst of much conflict.

CH2

You are witnesses and YHWH also how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers. For you know how like a father with his children we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of YHWH who calls you into His own kingdom and glory. And we also thank YHWH constantly for this that when you received the word of YHWH which you heard from us you accepted it not as the word of men but as what it really is the word of YHWH which is at work in you believers. For you brothers became imitators of the churches of YHWH in Judea that are in the Anointed Yeshua for you suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews who killed both the Lord Yeshua and the prophets and drove us out and displease YHWH and oppose all mankind by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved — so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them at last.
For we never came with words of flattery as you know nor with a pretext for greed — YHWH is witness. Nor did we seek glory from people whether from you or from others though we could have made demands as apostles of the Anointed. But we were gentle among you like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So being affectionately desirous of you we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of YHWH but also our own souls because you had become very dear to us. For you remember brothers our labor and toil. We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaimed to you the gospel of YHWH.
But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi as you know we had boldness in our YHWH to declare to you the gospel of YHWH in the midst of much conflict.
For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive but just as we have been approved by YHWH to be entrusted with the gospel so we speak not to please man but to please YHWH who tests our hearts.
For you yourselves know brothers that our coming to you was not in vain.

CH1

For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you and how you turned to YHWH from idols to serve the living and true YHWH and to wait for His Son from heaven whom He raised from the dead Yeshua who delivers us from the wrath to come.
So that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia but your faith in YHWH has gone forth everywhere so that we need not say anything.
And you became imitators of us and of the Lord for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit.
We give thanks to YHWH always for all of you constantly mentioning you in our prayers remembering before our YHWH and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. For we know brothers loved by YHWH that He has chosen you because our gospel came to you not only in word but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction.
Paul Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed. Grace to you and peace.
