2 CORINTHIANS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


CH13

The grace of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed and the love of YHWH and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Finally brothers rejoice. Aim for restoration comfort one another agree with one another live in peace and the YHWH of love and peace will be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you.
For we rejoice when we are weak and you are strong. This is what we pray for that you may be restored. For this reason I write these things while I am away from you that when I come I may not have to deal severely in accordance with the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
I warned those who sinned before and all the others and I warn them now while absent as I did when present on my second visit that if I come again I will not spare them — since you seek proof that the Anointed is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you but is powerful among you. For He was crucified in weakness but lives by the power of YHWH. For we also are weak in Him but in dealing with you we will live with Him by the power of YHWH.
This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this about yourselves that Yeshua the Anointed is in you? — unless indeed you fail to meet the test. I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test. But we pray to YHWH that you may not do wrong — not that we may appear to have met the test but that you may do what is right though we may seem to have failed. For we cannot do anything against the truth but only for the truth. For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. This is what we pray for that you may be restored.
We do not write this to make you ashamed but to warn you as my beloved children.
I write this while I am away from you in order that when I come I may not have to be severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
I warned those who sinned before and all the others…
This is the third time I am coming to you…

CH12

For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish and that you may find me not as you wish — that perhaps there may be quarreling jealousy anger selfishness slander gossip conceit and disorder. I fear that when I come again my YHWH may humble me before you and I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity sexual immorality and sensuality that they have practiced.
I write this while I am away from you in order that when I come I may not have to be severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. I warned those who sinned before and all the others and I warn them now while absent as I did when present on my second visit that if I come again I will not spare them — since you seek proof that the Anointed is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you but is powerful among you. For He was crucified in weakness but lives by the power of YHWH. For we also are weak in Him but in dealing with you we will live with Him by the power of YHWH.
For this reason I write these things while I am away from you that when I come I may not have to deal severely…
I have been a fool. You forced me to it for I ought to have been commended by you. For I was not at all inferior to these super-apostles even though I am nothing. The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience with signs and wonders and mighty works. For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong. Here for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be a burden for I seek not what is yours but you. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents but parents for their children. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more am I to be loved less?
But I will not boast about myself except about my weaknesses. On behalf of this man I will boast but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses. For if I wish to boast I will not be a fool for I shall be speaking the truth. But I refrain from it so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me. So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations a thorn was given me in the flesh a messenger of Satan to harass me to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this that it should leave me. But He said to me “My grace is sufficient for you for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses so that the power of the Anointed may rest upon me. For the sake of the Anointed then I am content with weaknesses insults hardships persecutions and calamities. For when I am weak then I am strong.
I know a man in the Anointed who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven — whether in the body or out of the body I do not know YHWH knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise — whether in the body or out of the body I do not know YHWH knows — and he heard things that cannot be told which man may not utter. On behalf of this man I will boast but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses.
I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord.

CH11

Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is made to fall and I am not indignant? If I must boast I will boast of the things that show my weakness. The YHWH and Father of the Lord Yeshua who is blessed forever knows that I am not lying. At Damascus the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands.
Are they servants of the Anointed? I am a better one — with far greater labors far more imprisonments with countless beatings and often near death. Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I was adrift at sea. On frequent journeys in danger from rivers danger from robbers danger from my own people danger from Gentiles danger in the city danger in the wilderness danger at sea danger from false brothers. Toil and hardship through many a sleepless night in hunger and thirst often without food in cold and exposure. And apart from other things there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches.
I repeat let no one think me a fool. But even if you do accept me as a fool that I too may boast a little. What I am saying with this boastful confidence I say not with the Lord’s authority but as a fool. Since many boast according to the flesh I too will boast. For you gladly bear with fools being wise yourselves! For you bear it if someone makes slaves of you or devours you or takes advantage of you or puts on airs or strikes you in the face. To my shame I must say we were too weak for that! But whatever anyone else dares to boast of — I am speaking as a fool — I also dare to boast of that. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I. Are they servants of the Anointed? I am a better one.
I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me!
I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to the Anointed. For if someone comes and proclaims another Yeshua than the one we proclaimed or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted you put up with it readily enough.
I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to the Anointed.
I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy.
For I feel a divine jealousy for you since I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to the Anointed.
For what is it in which you were less favored than the rest of the churches except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong!
For you gladly bear with fools being wise yourselves!
For if someone comes and proclaims another Yeshua…
I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you. And when I was with you and was in need I did not burden anyone for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way. As the truth of the Anointed is in me this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia. And why? Because I do not love you? YHWH knows I do!

CH10

Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved but the one whom the Lord commends.
We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others. But our hope is that as your faith increases our area of influence among you may be greatly enlarged so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you without boasting of work already done in another’s area. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord.
For we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who are commending themselves. But when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another they are without understanding.
For even if I boast a little too much of our authority which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you I will not be ashamed.
For if I boast a little too much of our authority…
For this reason I write these things while I am away from you that when I come I may not have to deal severely in accordance with the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
I who am humble when face to face with you but bold toward you when I am away! I beg of you that when I am present I may not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh we are not waging war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of YHWH and take every thought captive to obey the Anointed. We are ready to punish every disobedience when your obedience is complete.
I who am humble when face to face with you…
I myself Paul appeal to you by the meekness and gentleness of the Anointed — I who am humble when face to face with you but bold toward you when I am away!

CH9

Thanks be to YHWH for His inexpressible gift!
He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way which through us will produce thanksgiving to YHWH. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to YHWH. By their approval of this service they will glorify YHWH because of your submission that comes from your confession of the gospel of the Anointed and the liberality of your contribution for them and for all others while they long for you and pray for you because of the surpassing grace of YHWH upon you. Thanks be to YHWH for His inexpressible gift!
The one who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly and the one who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart not reluctantly or under compulsion for YHWH loves a cheerful giver.
So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised that it may be ready as a willing gift not as an exaction. I say this not as a command but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine. For you know the grace of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed that though He was rich yet for your sake He became poor so that you by His poverty might become rich.
Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints for I know your readiness of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia saying that Achaia has been ready since last year and your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter so that you may be ready as I said you would be. Otherwise if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready we would be humiliated — to say nothing of you — for being so confident. So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers…

CH8

So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men.
For I have confidence in you that you will do what is right. But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter and that you may be ready as I said you would be.
I am not speaking as a command but testing the genuineness of your love by the earnestness of others.
For you know the grace of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed that though He was rich yet for your sake He became poor so that you by His poverty might become rich.
And not only that but he has been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this act of grace that is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our good will.
I thank YHWH who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you. For he not only accepted our appeal but being himself very earnest he is going to you of his own accord.
Accordingly we urged Titus that as he had begun so he should complete among you this act of grace.
Now as you excel in everything — in faith in speech in knowledge in all earnestness and in our love for you — see that you excel in this act of grace also.
For they gave according to their means as I can testify and beyond their means of their own accord begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints.
For in a severe test of affliction their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means as I can testify and beyond their means of their own accord.
We want you to know brothers about the grace of YHWH that has been given among the churches of Macedonia.

CH7

Therefore we are comforted. And besides our own comfort we rejoiced still more at the joy of Titus because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. For whatever boasts I made to him about you have proved true. Just as everything we said to you was true so also our boasting before Titus has proved true. And his affection for you is all the more as he remembers the obedience of you all how with fear and trembling you received him. I rejoice because I have complete confidence in you.
For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you but also what eagerness to clear yourselves what indignation what alarm what longing what zeal what punishment! At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter.
For even if I made you grieve with my letter I do not regret it. Though I did regret it I see that that letter grieved you though only for a while. As it is I rejoice not because you were grieved but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret whereas worldly grief produces death.
For even when we came into Macedonia our bodies had no rest but we were afflicted at every turn — fighting without and fear within. But YHWH who comforts the downcast comforted us by the coming of Titus and not only by his coming but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you as he told us of your longing your mourning your zeal for me so that I rejoiced still more.
For this reason we have been comforted. In addition to our own comfort we rejoiced even more at the joy of Titus because his spirit has been refreshed by you all.
Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one we have corrupted no one we have taken advantage of no one. I do not say this to condemn you for I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together. I am acting with great boldness toward you. I have great pride in you. I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction I am overflowing with joy.
Since we have these promises beloved let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit bringing holiness to completion in the fear of YHWH.
Therefore having these promises beloved let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit bringing holiness to completion in the fear of YHWH.

CH6

And I will be a father to you and you shall be sons and daughters to me says the Lord Almighty.
Therefore go out from their midst and be separate from them says the Lord and touch no unclean thing. Then I will welcome you and I will be a father to you…
Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has the Anointed with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of YHWH with idols? For we are the temple of the living YHWH. As YHWH has said “I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them and I will be their YHWH and they shall be my people.”
As servants of YHWH we commend ourselves in every way: by great endurance in afflictions hardships calamities beatings imprisonments riots labors sleepless nights hunger by purity knowledge patience kindness the Holy Spirit genuine love truthful speech and the power of YHWH with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left through honor and dishonor through slander and praise regarded as impostors and yet true as unknown and yet well known as dying and behold we live as punished and yet not killed as sorrowful yet always rejoicing as poor yet making many rich as having nothing yet possessing everything.
We put no obstacle in anyone’s way so that no fault may be found with our ministry but as servants of YHWH we commend ourselves in every way…
Working together with Him then we appeal to you not to receive the grace of YHWH in vain. For He says “In a favorable time I listened to you and in a day of salvation I have helped you.” Behold now is the favorable time. Behold now is the day of salvation. We put no obstacle in anyone’s way so that no fault may be found with our ministry.

CH5

For we must all appear before the judgment seat of the Anointed so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body whether good or evil. Therefore knowing the fear of the Lord we persuade others. But what we are is known to YHWH and I hope it is known also to your conscience. We are not commending ourselves to you again but giving you cause to boast about us so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart. For if we are beside ourselves it is for YHWH. If we are in our right mind it is for you. For the love of the Anointed controls us because we have concluded this that one has died for all therefore all have died and He died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for Him who for their sake died and was raised.
Therefore if anyone is in the Anointed he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold the new has come. All this is from YHWH who through the Anointed reconciled us to Himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation that is in the Anointed YHWH was reconciling the world to Himself not counting their trespasses against them and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore we are ambassadors for the Anointed YHWH making His appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of the Anointed be reconciled to YHWH. For our sake He made Him to be sin who knew no sin so that in Him we might become the righteousness of YHWH.
For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed we have a building from YHWH a house not made with hands eternal in the heavens. For in this tent we groan longing to put on our heavenly dwelling. For while we are still in this tent we groan being burdened — not that we would be unclothed but that we would be further clothed so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. He who has prepared us for this very thing is YHWH who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord for we walk by faith not by sight. Yes we are of good courage and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or away we make it our aim to please Him.

CH4

Therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen but on what is unseen since what is seen is temporary but what is unseen is eternal.
For we who are alive are always being given over to death for Yeshua’s sake so that His life may also be revealed in our mortal body. So then death is at work in us but life in you.
It is written “I believed therefore I have spoken.” Since we have that same spirit of faith we also believe and therefore speak because we know that the one who raised the Lord Yeshua will also raise us with Yeshua and present us with you in His presence. All this is for your benefit so that the grace that is reaching more and more people may cause thanksgiving to overflow to the glory of YHWH.
But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that this all-surpassing power is from YHWH and not from us. We are hard pressed on every side but not crushed perplexed but not in despair persecuted but not abandoned struck down but not destroyed.
For YHWH who said “Let light shine out of darkness” has shone in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of YHWH in the face of the Anointed Yeshua.
For what we preach is not ourselves but Yeshua the Anointed as Lord and ourselves as your servants for Yeshua’s sake.
Therefore since through YHWH’s mercy we have this ministry we do not lose heart. Rather we have renounced secret and shameful ways. We do not use deception nor do we distort the word of YHWH. On the contrary by setting forth the truth plainly we commend ourselves to everyone’s conscience in the sight of YHWH. And even if our gospel is veiled it is veiled to those who are perishing. The god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel that displays the glory of the Anointed who is the image of YHWH.

CH3

And we all with unveiled face beholding the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
For to this day when they read the old covenant that same veil remains unlifted because only through the Anointed is it taken away. Yes to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord the veil is removed.
Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us but our sufficiency is from YHWH who has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills but the Spirit gives life.
Now if the ministry of death carved in letters on stone came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses’ face because of its glory which was being brought to an end will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. Indeed in this case what once had glory has come to have no glory at all because of the glory that surpasses it. For if what was being brought to an end came with glory much more will what is permanent have glory.
Such is the confidence that we have through the Anointed toward YHWH. Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us but our sufficiency is from YHWH.
You yourselves are our letter of recommendation written on our hearts to be known and read by all. And you show that you are a letter from the Anointed delivered by us written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living YHWH not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.
Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need as some do letters of recommendation to you or from you?

CH2

For we are not like so many peddlers of YHWH’s word but as men of sincerity as from YHWH we speak in the Anointed before YHWH.
For we are the aroma of the Anointed to YHWH among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing to one a fragrance from death to death to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
Thanks be to YHWH who in the Anointed always leads us in triumphal procession and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere.
When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of the Anointed a door was opened for me in the Lord but my spirit was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia.
But I call YHWH to witness against me — it was to spare you that I refrained from coming again to Corinth. Not that we lord it over your faith but we work with you for your joy for you stand firm in your faith.
For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
Now if anyone has caused pain he has caused it not to me but in some measure — not to put it too severely — to all of you. For such a one this punishment by the majority is enough so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him. For this is why I wrote that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything. Anyone whom you forgive I also forgive. Indeed what I have forgiven if I have forgiven anything has been for your sake in the presence of the Anointed so that we would not be outwitted by Satan for we are not ignorant of his designs.
Now when I came to Troas…
For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears…
But I decided this for my own sake that I would not come again to you in sorrow. For if I cause you sorrow who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have grieved? And I wrote as I did so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice for I felt sure of all of you that my joy would be the joy of you all. For I wrote to you out of much affliction…

CH1

For our boast is this the testimony of our conscience that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of YHWH and supremely so toward you. For we write you nothing other than what you read and understand and I hope you will fully understand — just as you did partially understand us — that on the day of our Lord Yeshua you will boast of us as we will boast of you. Because I was sure of this I wanted to come to you first so that you might have a second experience of grace. I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia and to come back to you from Macedonia and have you send me on my way to Judea. Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh ready to say “Yes yes” and “No no” at the same time? As surely as YHWH is faithful our word to you has not been Yes and No. For the Son of YHWH Yeshua the Anointed whom we proclaimed among you Silvanus and Timothy was not Yes and No but in Him it is always Yes. For all the promises of YHWH find their Yes in Him. That is why it is through Him that we utter our Amen to YHWH for His glory. And it is YHWH who establishes us with you in the Anointed and has anointed us and who has also put His seal on us and given us His Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
For we do not write you anything other than what you read and understand…
For our boast is this…
For I do not want you to be unaware brothers of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. Indeed we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on YHWH who raises the dead. He delivered us from such a deadly peril and He will deliver us. On Him we have set our hope that He will deliver us again. You also must help us by prayer so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many.
Blessed be the YHWH and Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed the Father of mercies and YHWH of all comfort who comforts us in all our affliction so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by YHWH. For as we share abundantly in the Anointed’s sufferings so through the Anointed we share abundantly in comfort too. If we are afflicted it is for your comfort and salvation and if we are comforted it is for your comfort which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. Our hope for you is unshaken for we know that as you share in our sufferings you will also share in our comfort.
Paul an apostle of the Anointed Yeshua by the will of YHWH and Timothy our brother to the church of YHWH that is at Corinth with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.

CH0 Introduction

Indeed, in our hearts we felt we had received the sentence of death. But this happened that we might not rely on ourselves but on God, who raises the dead. He has delivered us from such a deadly peril, and He will deliver us again. On Him we have set our hope that He will continue to deliver us, as you help us by your prayers. Then many will give thanks on our behalf for the gracious favor granted us in answer to the prayers of many.
We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers and sisters, about the troubles we experienced in the province of Asia. We were under great pressure, far beyond our ability to endure, so that we despaired of life itself.
Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed, the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves receive from God.
Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Paul, an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To the church of God in Corinth, together with all His holy people throughout Achaia.
