2 ENOCH 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Slavonic / Greek manuscript traditions with YHWH framework alignment.


And Enoch was taken up into heaven and the angels carried him to the presence of YHWH. And all the heavenly host bowed before him. And the Holy One blessed be He said: “Be at peace Enoch My scribe. You have seen My glory and the secrets of creation. Go and tell your sons and all the children of men what you have seen and heard so that they may walk in My ways and inherit eternal life.”
And Enoch lived 365 years on earth after he returned from the heavens and he taught his sons and all the generations the wisdom he had received. And he wrote 366 books and gave them to his sons to preserve for future generations.
And the Lord said to Enoch: “Go back to the earth for a time and teach your children and all who will listen. Then I will bring you back to stand before My Throne forever.”
And Enoch descended to earth and gathered his sons Methuselah and all his household and taught them the heavenly knowledge he had received — the secrets of creation the movements of the stars the laws of righteousness and the coming judgment.
And when Enoch had finished speaking to his people the angels came and took him again into heaven where he stands forever as a witness before the Throne of YHWH.
And the Lord showed Enoch all the secrets of the heavens the storehouses of snow and hail the chambers of the winds the foundations of the earth and the books in which all the deeds of men are recorded.
And Enoch saw the place of the righteous and the place of torment and the tree of life and the throne of glory.
And Enoch ascended through the ten heavens and in the highest heaven he stood before the face of YHWH and was transformed into an angelic being.
In the beginning when Enoch was 365 years old and walked with YHWH he was taken up by two angels of light and shown the mysteries of all creation.

And Enoch lived two hundred and sixty-five years and begat Methuselah. And Enoch walked with YHWH and was not, for YHWH took him.
And the angels took Enoch up into the heavens and showed him all the secrets of creation, the movements of the stars, and the dwellings of the righteous and the wicked.
Then Enoch said to his sons: “Hear me, my children. In the days of my life I have walked before YHWH and have seen all the works of the heavens and the earth. I have written all these things in books for you, so that you may know the ways of YHWH and walk in them.”
And it came to pass, when Enoch had spoken these words to his sons, that the angels of YHWH came and lifted him up to the highest heaven.
And Enoch was taken up into heaven while still in the flesh, and the angels showed him the treasuries of the snow and the storehouses of the dew, and all the secrets of the universe.
Hear, my children! Before all things were made, YHWH created the visible and the invisible. And He created man in His own image and gave him knowledge of good and evil.
The book of the words of Enoch, the righteous man, whom YHWH took, and he was not. And this is the account of his ascension.
