2 PETER 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


CH3

But grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Yeshua the Anointed. To Him be glory both now and to day of eternity. Amen.
Therefore beloved since you are waiting for these things be diligent to be found by Him without spot or blemish and at peace. And count patience of our Lord as salvation just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to wisdom given him as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand which ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction as they do other Scriptures.
Since all these things are thus to be dissolved what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness waiting for and hastening coming of day of YHWH because of which heavens will be set on fire and dissolved and heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! But according to His promise we are waiting for new heavens and new earth in which righteousness dwells.
But day of YHWH will come like thief and then heavens will pass away with roar and heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved and earth and works that are done on it will be exposed.
They deliberately overlook this fact that by word of YHWH heavens existed long ago and earth was formed out of water and through water. By means of these world that then existed was deluged with water and perished.
For they deliberately forget that there were heavens long ago and earth formed out of water and through water by word of YHWH.
Scoffers will come in last days with scoffing following their own sinful desires. They will say “Where is promise of His coming? For ever since fathers fell asleep all things are continuing as they were from beginning of creation.”
This is now beloved second letter that I am writing to you. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder that you should remember words spoken before by holy prophets and commandment of Lord and Savior through your apostles.

CH2

What the true proverb says has happened to them: “The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow after washing herself returns to wallow in mire.”
For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved. They are blots and blemishes reveling in their deceptions while they feast with you. They have eyes full of adultery insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children!
Forsaking the right way they have gone astray. They followed way of Balaam son of Beor who loved gain of wrongdoing but was rebuked for his own transgression. A speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained prophet’s madness.
They count it pleasure to revel in daytime. They are blots and blemishes reveling in their deceptions while they feast with you. They have eyes full of adultery insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children!
These are waterless springs and mists driven by storm. For them gloom of utter darkness has been reserved.
They promise freedom but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes person to that he is enslaved.
For if after escaping defilements of world through knowledge of our Lord and Savior Yeshua the Anointed they are again entangled in them and overcome the last state has become worse for them than first. For it would have been better for them never to have known way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from holy commandment delivered to them.
They have gone astray. They have followed way of Balaam who loved gain of wrongdoing.
Bold and willful they do not tremble as they blaspheme glorious ones whereas angels though greater in might and power do not pronounce blasphemous judgment against them before YHWH.
But these like irrational animals creatures of instinct born to be caught and destroyed blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant will also be destroyed in their destruction.
These are hidden reefs at your love feasts as they feast with you without fear shepherds feeding themselves. Waterless springs and mists driven by storm. For them gloom of utter darkness has been reserved.
And many will follow their sensuality and because of them way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle and their destruction is not asleep.
But false prophets also arose among people just as there will be false teachers among you who will secretly bring in destructive heresies even denying Master who bought them bringing upon themselves swift destruction.

CH1

For no prophecy was ever produced by will of man but men spoke from YHWH as they were carried along by Holy Spirit. And we have prophetic word more fully confirmed to which you will do well to pay attention as to lamp shining in dark place until day dawns and morning star rises in your hearts knowing this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone’s own interpretation.
For when He received honor and glory from YHWH the Father and voice was borne to Him by Majestic Glory “This is My beloved Son with whom I am well pleased” we ourselves heard this very voice borne from heaven for we were with Him on holy mountain. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you power and coming of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed but we were eyewitnesses of His majesty.
And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things. For I know that putting off of my body will be soon as our Lord Yeshua the Anointed made clear to me. And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things.
For this reason I will not be negligent to remind you of these things though you know them and are established in present truth. I think it right as long as I am in this body to stir you up by way of reminder.
For if these qualities are yours and are increasing they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in knowledge of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore brothers be all more diligent to confirm your calling and election for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you entrance into eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Yeshua the Anointed.
And knowledge with self-control and self-control with steadfastness and steadfastness with godliness and godliness with brotherly affection and brotherly affection with love. For this very reason make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue and virtue with knowledge.
His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises so that through them you may become partakers of divine nature having escaped corruption that is in world because of sinful desire.
Simeon Peter servant and apostle of Yeshua the Anointed. To those who have obtained faith of equal standing with ours by righteousness of our YHWH and Savior Yeshua the Anointed. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in knowledge of YHWH and of Yeshua our Lord.

