2 THESSALONIANS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH3

The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with you all.
I Paul write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine. It is the way I write.
Now may the Lord of peace Himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all.
As for you brothers do not grow weary in doing good. If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter take note of that person and have nothing to do with him that he may be ashamed. Do not regard him as an enemy but warn him as a brother.
For we hear that some among you walk in idleness not busy at work but busybodies. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Yeshua the Anointed to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.
For even when we were with you we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work let him not eat.
Brothers do not be weary in doing good.
Take note of anyone who does not obey this instruction.
Now we command you brothers in the name of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us.
But as for you brothers do not grow weary in doing good.
Finally brothers pray for us that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored as it was among you and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. And we have confidence in the Lord about you that you are doing and will do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of YHWH and to the steadfastness of the Anointed.

CH2

Now may our Lord Yeshua the Anointed Himself and YHWH our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.
So then brothers stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us either by our spoken word or by our letter.
But we ought always to give thanks to YHWH for you brothers beloved by the Lord because YHWH chose you as the firstfruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this He called you through our gospel so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
And with all wicked deception for those who are perishing because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. Therefore YHWH sends them a strong delusion so that they may believe what is false in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing…
For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed whom the Lord Yeshua will kill with the breath of His mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of His coming.
Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed the son of destruction who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship so that he takes his seat in the temple of YHWH proclaiming himself to be YHWH. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things?
Now concerning the coming of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed and our being gathered together to Him we ask you brothers not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.

CH1

To this end we always pray for you that our YHWH may make you worthy of His calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by His power so that the name of our Lord Yeshua may be glorified in you and you in Him according to the grace of our YHWH and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
This is evidence of the righteous judgment of YHWH that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of YHWH for which you are also suffering — since indeed YHWH considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us when the Lord Yeshua is revealed from heaven with His mighty angels in flaming fire inflicting vengeance on those who do not know YHWH and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Yeshua. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His might when He comes on that day to be glorified in His saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed because our testimony to you was believed.
We ought always to give thanks to YHWH for you brothers as is right because your faith is growing abundantly and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of YHWH for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring.
Paul Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.

CH0 Introduction

Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Paul, Silas and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
We always thank God for you, brothers and sisters, and rightly so, because your faith is growing more and more, and the love all of you have for one another is increasing.
We ought always to thank God for you, brothers and sisters, because your faith is growing more and more, and the love all of you have for one another is increasing. Therefore, among God’s churches we boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials you are enduring.
