3 ENOCH 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Hebrew manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.


The Holy One, blessed be He, said to me: “Go and tell the sons of men that I have chosen you to be a witness of My glory and to reveal the secrets of My kingdom.” And I, Enoch, returned to the earth and proclaimed all that I had seen and heard in the heavenly realms.
And the Holy One, blessed be He, placed upon my head the crown of glory and the crown of kingship, and He called me Metatron, the Prince of the Presence, the Prince of the World.
And all the princes of the kingdoms and the angels of the nations fell upon their faces before me and said: “You are exalted above all the sons of men.”
And the Holy One, blessed be He, said: “Metatron My servant, I have made you greater than all the angels and given you a name above every name that is named in heaven and on earth.”
Then the Holy One, blessed be He, opened before me all the treasuries of wisdom and understanding, and showed me the secrets of creation, the order of the stars, the courses of the planets, and the foundations of the earth.
And I saw the chambers of the palaces of heaven, the Merkabah, the wheels of the chariot, and the seraphim, cherubim, and holy living creatures who stand before the Throne of Glory singing the trisagion: “Holy, holy, holy is YHWH of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.”
And the Holy One, blessed be He, took me from among the sons of men while I was still in the flesh and caused me to ascend through the seven heavens on the wings of the wind, and I saw the angelic hosts, the princes of the Presence, and the fiery rivers flowing beneath the Throne.
And when I reached the seventh palace, the Holy One, blessed be He, took me and seated me upon a throne of glory, and He wrote upon me with the finger of His right hand the letters by which heaven and earth were created, and He gave me wisdom above all the sons of men.
I, Enoch, the son of Jared, the seventh from Adam, was taken up while still alive into the heavenly realms by the command of YHWH.

And the Holy One, blessed be He, placed His hand upon me and called me by a new name: Metatron, the Prince of the Presence, the servant of YHWH.
I, Enoch, was taken from among the children of men and carried up on the chariots of the wind into the highest heavens where I beheld the palaces of the King of Kings and the chambers of glory.
Then the Holy One, blessed be He, transformed me from flesh into flame, from matter into spirit, and made me greater than all the princes of heaven.
And when I saw the glory of the Merkabah and the hosts of angels, I fell upon my face, but the Holy One lifted me up and said: “Fear not, Enoch, for I have chosen you to be a witness of My wonders.”
Rabbi Ishmael said: When I ascended on high to behold the vision of the Merkabah, I met Enoch who is called Metatron, Prince of the Presence, and he revealed to me the secrets of the heavens.
And Enoch walked with YHWH and he was not, for YHWH took him and elevated him to the rank of Metatron, the lesser YHWH, who ministers before the Throne of Glory.
