3 Ezra (1 Esdras)

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.

CH9

And they gave their hands to put away their wives, and to offer rams for their errors. And the priests and Levites and they of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country, on the new moon of the seventh month. And the children of Israel were in their habitations. And the whole congregation came together with one accord into the broad place before the east gate of the temple. And they spake unto Esdras the priest and reader, that he should bring the law of Moses, which was given of the Lord God of Israel. So Esdras the chief priest brought the law unto all the multitude, both of men and women, and to all the priests, to hear the law on the new moon of the seventh month. And he read in the broad court before the porch of the temple from morning unto midday, before both men and women; and all the multitude gave heed unto the law. And Esdras the priest and reader of the law stood upon a pulpit of wood, which was made for that purpose. And there stood by him Mattathias, Sammus, Ananias, Azarias, Urias, Hilkiah, and Baalsamus on his right hand, and on his left hand Paldas, Misael, Malachias, Lothasubus, Nabarias, and Zacharias. Then took Esdras the book of the law before the multitude: for he had the chief place among all the people. And when he opened the law, they stood all straight up. Then Esdras blessed YHWH God most High, the God of hosts, Almighty. And all the people answered, Amen. And lifting up their hands they bowed themselves, and worshipped YHWH with their faces to the ground. Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading. And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Esdras the priest and scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto YHWH your God; mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law. Then Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Esdras the priest the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto YHWH your God; mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law. Then he said unto them, Go your way, and eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: for this day is holy unto our Lord: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of YHWH is your strength. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved. And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Esdras the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. And they found written in the law which YHWH had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month: And that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as it is written. So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim. And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths, and sat in the booths: for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner. And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Esdras the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. And they found written in the law… And the children of Israel were in their habitations… And the whole congregation came together… And they spake unto Esdras the priest… So Esdras the chief priest brought the law… And he read in the broad court… And Esdras the priest and reader of the law stood upon a pulpit… And there stood by him Mattathias… Then took Esdras the book of the law… And when he opened the law, they stood all straight up… Then Esdras blessed YHWH God… And all the people answered, Amen… And lifting up their hands they bowed themselves… Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah… So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly… And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha… Then he said unto them, Go your way… So the Levites stilled all the people… And all the people went their way to eat…

CH8

And they delivered the king’s commissions unto the king’s lieutenants and to the governors of Coelesyria and Phoenicia; and they honoured the people and the temple of God. And when these things were done, the rulers came unto me and said, The nation of Israel, the princes, the priests, and the Levites, have not put away from them the strange people of the land, nor the pollutions of the Gentiles, namely the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, and the Moabites, Egyptians, and Edomites. For both they and their sons have married with their daughters, and the holy seed is mixed with the strange people of the land; and from the beginning of this matter the rulers and the great men have been partakers of this iniquity. And as soon as I had heard these things, I rent my clothes and my holy garment, and pulled off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat me down sad and very heavy. Then were gathered unto me all they that were moved at the word of the Lord God of Israel, for this iniquity that was done. And I sat sad until the evening sacrifice. Then rising up from the prayer I cast myself upon the ground, and after I had found favour before the Lord, I arose and fell upon my knees, and stretched out my hands unto the Lord, and said, O Lord, I am confounded and ashamed before thy face. For our iniquities are multiplied above our heads, and our sins are gone up to heaven. From the time of our fathers until this day we have been in great sin. And for our sins and our fathers’ we with our brethren and our kings and our priests were given up to the kings of the earth, to the sword, and to captivity, and for a prey with shame. And now in some measure mercy hath been shewed unto us from thee, O Lord, that there should be left us a root and a name in the place of thy sanctuary. And now when we are come again to the light of thy law, that we might do all those things which are written in the law of the Lord, we have turned not away from our iniquities. And now, O Lord, what shall we say, having these things? For we have transgressed thy commandments, which thou gavest by the hand of thy servants the prophets, saying, The land which ye enter into to possess as an heritage is a land polluted with the pollutions of the strangers of the land, and they have filled it with their uncleanness. Therefore now shall ye not join your daughters unto their sons, neither shall ye take their daughters unto your sons. Neither shall ye seek their peace or prosperity for ever, that ye may be strong, and eat the good things of the land, and leave the inheritance of the land unto your children for ever. And all that is befallen is done unto us for our evil deeds and our great sins. For thou, O Lord, didst make our fathers as a root, and didst give us a name, as it is this day. And now we are in transgression before thee, and our sins are multiplied upon our heads. And the priests and the Levites and the rulers of the people came unto me, saying, The nation of Israel, the princes, the priests, and the Levites, have not put away from them the strange people of the land… And when these things were done, the rulers came unto me… And Esdras the priest brought the law… And the whole congregation came together… And the children of Israel were in their habitations… And they gave their hands to put away their wives…

CH7

And they offered the Passover for all that were come back from the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves. And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat, even all they that had separated themselves from the abominations of the people of the land, to seek the Lord. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country, in the new moon of the seventh month. And the children of Israel which were come back from the captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the pollutions of the people of the land, to seek the Lord God of Israel, did eat. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country. And they offered the Passover for all that were come back from the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves. And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat… And Esdras the priest brought the law… And the whole congregation came together… And the children of Israel were in their habitations… And they gave their hands to put away their wives…

CH6

And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of the house of the Lord with joy. And they offered at the dedication of the house of the Lord one hundred bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, and for a sin offering for all Israel twelve he goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel. And the priests and the Levites stood arrayed in their vestments according to their tribes, for the service of the Lord God of Israel, according to the book of Moses. And the children of Israel that were of the captivity kept the Passover the fourteenth day of the first month. And the Levites that had been sanctified purified the Levites, all the children of the captivity. And they offered the Passover for all that were come back from the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves. And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat, even all they that had separated themselves from the abominations of the people of the land, to seek the Lord. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country, in the new moon of the seventh month. And the children of Israel which were come back from the captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the pollutions of the people of the land, to seek the Lord God of Israel, did eat. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy… And the elders of the Jews builded, and the Levites, the sons of Henadad, their sons and their brethren. And they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes kings of Persia. And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king. And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of the house of the Lord with joy. And they offered at the dedication of the house of the Lord one hundred bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs… And the priests and the Levites stood arrayed… And the children of Israel that were of the captivity kept the Passover… And the Levites that had been sanctified purified… And they offered the Passover for all that were come back… And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat… And they kept the feast of unleavened bread… And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem… And the children of Israel which were come back from the captivity… Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon. And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written: In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house be builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let the foundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits; With three rows of great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses be given out of the king’s house: And also let the golden and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, be restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem, every one to his place, and place them in the house of God. Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai, and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, be ye far from thence: Let the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in his place. Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of these Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the king’s goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto these men, that they be not hindered. And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams, and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail: That they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and pray for the life of the king, and of his sons. Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word, let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this. And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree; let it be done with speed. Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so they did speedily. And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river… Then Darius the king made a decree… Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum… The copy of the letter that Tatnai… Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea… Then ceased the work of the house of God… Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river… Then Tattenai… Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even unto them. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem: and with them were the prophets of God helping them. At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this wall? Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the names of the men that make this building? But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer by letter concerning this matter. The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and his companions the Apharsachites, which were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king: They sent a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all peace. Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on, and prospereth in their hands. Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded you to build this house, and to make up these walls? We asked their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of the men that were the chief of them. And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon. But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God. And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and brought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor; And said unto him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place. Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished. Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search made in the king’s treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter.

CH5

And the priests, and the Levites, and they of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country, in the new moon of the seventh month. And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity kept the Passover the fourteenth day of the first month. And the Levites that had been sanctified purified the Levites, all the children of the captivity. And they offered the Passover for all that were come back from the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves. And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat, even all they that had separated themselves from the abominations of the people of the land, to seek the Lord. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem and in the country… And the elders of the Jews builded, and the Levites, the sons of Henadad, their sons and their brethren. And they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes kings of Persia. And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king. And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of the house of the Lord with joy. And they offered at the dedication of the house of the Lord one hundred bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs… And the priests and the Levites stood arrayed… And the children of Israel that were of the captivity kept the Passover… And the Levites that had been sanctified purified… And they offered the Passover for all that were come back… And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat… And they kept the feast of unleavened bread… And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem… And the children of Israel which were come back from the captivity… Then Darius the king made a decree… Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum… The copy of the letter that Tatnai… Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea… Then ceased the work of the house of God… Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river… Then Tattenai… Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even unto them. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem: and with them were the prophets of God helping them. At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this wall? Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the names of the men that make this building? But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer by letter concerning this matter. The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and his companions the Apharsachites, which were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king: They sent a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all peace. Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on, and prospereth in their hands. Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded you to build this house, and to make up these walls? We asked their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of the men that were the chief of them. And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon. But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God. And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor; And said unto him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place. Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished. Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search made in the king’s treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter. Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon. And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written: In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house be builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let the foundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits; With three rows of great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses be given out of the king’s house: And also let the golden and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, be restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem, every one to his place, and place them in the house of God. Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai, and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, be ye far from thence: Let the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in his place. Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of these Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the king’s goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto these men, that they be not hindered. And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams, and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail: That they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and pray for the life of the king, and of his sons. Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word, let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this. And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree; let it be done with speed. Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so they did speedily. And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it…

CH4

Then the king sent and called for all the governors and captains and lieutenants and rulers of his realm, and they took counsel with him. And he said unto them, Tell me now, what is the strongest thing of all? Then the third, who had spoken of women and of truth, began to speak. O ye men, is not the king strong? Are not men strong that rule over sea and land? But above all things truth beareth away the victory. Wine is wicked, the king is wicked, women are wicked, all the children of men are wicked, and such are all their works; and there is no truth in them; in their unrighteousness also they shall perish. As for truth, it endureth, and is always strong; it liveth and conquereth for evermore. With her there is no accepting of persons or rewards; but she doeth the things that are just, and refraineth from all unjust and wicked things; and all men do well like of her works. Neither in her judgment is any unrighteousness; and she is the strength, kingdom, power, and majesty, of all ages. Blessed be the God of truth. And with that he held his peace. And all the people then shouted, and said, Great is truth, and mighty above all things. Then the king said unto him, Ask what thou wilt more than is appointed in the writing, and we will give it thee, because thou art found wisest; and thou shalt sit next me, and shalt be called my cousin. Then said he unto the king, Remember thy vow, which thou didst vow to build Jerusalem, in the day when thou camest to thy kingdom, and to send away all the vessels that were taken away out of Jerusalem, which Cyrus the king did dedicate, when he vowed to destroy Babylon, and to send them again thither. Thou also hast vowed to build up the temple, which the Edomites burned when Judea was made desolate by the Chaldees. And now, O lord the king, this is that which I require, and which I desire of thee, and this is the princely liberality proceeding from thyself: I desire therefore that thou make good the vow, the performance whereof with thine own mouth thou hast vowed to the King of heaven. Then Darius the king stood up, and kissed him, and wrote letters for him unto all the treasurers and lieutenants and captains and governors, that they should safely convey on their way both him, and all those that went up with him, to build Jerusalem. He sent letters also unto the lieutenants that were in Celosyria and Phenice, and unto them in Libanus, that they should draw cedar trees from Libanus to Jerusalem, and that they should help Zorobabel. And he wrote for all the Jews that went out of the kingdom to Judea, for their freedom, that no officer, no ruler, no lieutenant, nor treasurer, should forcibly enter into their doors; And that all the country which they hold should be free for them without tribute; and that the Edomites should give over the villages of the Jews which then they held. Yea, that there should be yearly given twenty talents to the building of the temple, until it were finished; And other ten talents yearly, to maintain the burnt offerings upon the altar every day, even according as they had a commandment to offer seventeen. And that all they that went from Babylon to build the city should have free liberty. And he sent away all the vessels from Babylon, that Cyrus the king had set aside; and when Cyrus the king had commanded to bring them, he gave them to Mithridates the treasurer, and to Sanabassar the governor of Judea. And he sent away all the vessels. And they went from Babylon in the seventh month of the sixth year of the reign of Darius king of the Persians. And in the first year of Cyrus the king of the Persians, that they might fulfil the word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah the prophet, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of the Persians, that he made proclamation through all his kingdom, and also by writing. Thus saith Cyrus king of the Persians; The Lord of Israel, the most high Lord, hath made me king of the whole world, and hath commanded me to build him an house at Jerusalem in Jewry. If therefore there be any of you that are of his people, let the Lord, even his Lord, be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem that is in Jewry, and build the house of the Lord of Israel: he is the Lord that dwelleth in Jerusalem. Whosoever therefore shall dwell in any place where he sojourneth, let his neighbours help him with gold, and with silver, With goods, and with horses, and with cattle, and with other things, besides that which they have freely offered. Then rose up the chief of the families of Juda and of the tribe of Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, and all they whose spirit the Lord had stirred up to go up to build the house for the Lord which is in Jerusalem. And they that dwelt round about them helped them with all manner of silver and gold, with horses and cattle, and with very many gifts, besides a great number of free offerings. And king Cyrus brought forth the vessels of the temple of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem, and had laid them up in his temple of idols. And Cyrus king of Persia brought them forth by the hand of Mithridates his treasurer, and numbered them unto Sanabassar the governor of Judea. And this was the number of them: A thousand and one thousand and two hundred and nine and thirty chargers of gold, a thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty censers, Thirty basons of gold, two thousand four hundred and ten basons of silver, and other vessels a thousand. So all the vessels of gold and of silver, which were carried away, were five thousand and four hundred and threescore and nine. These did Sanabassar bring back with them that came up from the captivity of Babylon to Jerusalem. But in the second year of the reign of Cyrus king of Persia, when the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also by writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus king of the Persians; The Lord of Israel, the most high Lord, hath made me king of the whole world, and hath commanded me to build him an house at Jerusalem in Jewry. If therefore there be any of you that are of his people, let the Lord be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem that is in Jewry, and build the house of the Lord of Israel: he is the Lord that dwelleth in Jerusalem. Whosoever therefore shall dwell in any place where he sojourneth, let his neighbours help him with gold, and with silver, With goods, and with horses, and with cattle, and with other things, besides that which they have freely offered. Then rose up the chief of the families of Juda and of the tribe of Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, and all they whose spirit the Lord had stirred up to go up to build the house for the Lord which is in Jerusalem. And they that dwelt round about them helped them with all manner of silver and gold, with horses and cattle, and with very many gifts, besides a great number of free offerings. And king Cyrus brought forth the vessels of the temple of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem, and had laid them up in his temple of idols. And Cyrus king of Persia brought them forth by the hand of Mithridates his treasurer, and numbered them unto Sanabassar the governor of Judea. And this was the number of them… Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity builded the temple unto the Lord God of Israel; Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the fathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek your God, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither. But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the fathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to build an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build unto the Lord God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath commanded us. Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and troubled them in building, And hired counsellors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia. And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem. And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, and interpreted in the Syrian tongue. Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort… Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem. So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia. Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even unto them. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem: and with them were the prophets of God helping them. At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this wall? Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the names of the men that make this building? But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer by letter concerning this matter. The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and his companions the Apharsachites, which were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so they did speedily. And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes kings of Persia. And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king. And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of the house of the Lord with joy…

CH3

Then the king and the princes and the captains looked one upon another. Then the king said unto him, Ask what thou wilt more than is appointed in the writing, and we will give it thee, because thou art found wisest; and thou shalt sit next me, and shalt be called my cousin. Then said he unto the king, Remember thy vow, which thou didst vow to build Jerusalem, in the day when thou camest to thy kingdom. And now, O lord the king, this is that which I require, and which I desire of thee, and this is the princely liberality proceeding from thyself: I desire therefore that thou make good the vow, the performance whereof with thine own mouth thou hast vowed to the King of heaven. Then Darius the king stood up, and kissed him, and wrote letters for him unto all the treasurers and lieutenants and captains and governors, that they should safely convey on their way both him, and all those that went up with him, to build Jerusalem. He sent letters also unto the lieutenants that were in Coelesyria and Phenice, and unto them in Libanus, that they should draw cedar trees from Libanus to Jerusalem, and that they should help Zorobabel. And he wrote for all the Jews that went out of the kingdom to Judea, for their freedom, that no officer, no ruler, no lieutenant, nor treasurer, should forcibly enter into their doors. And that all the country which they hold should be free for them without tribute. And that the Edomites should give over the villages of the Jews which then they held. Yea, that there should be yearly given twenty talents to the building of the temple, until it were finished. And other ten talents yearly, to maintain the burnt offerings upon the altar every day, even according as they had a commandment to offer seventeen. And that all they that went from Babylon to build the city should have free liberty. And he sent away all the vessels from Babylon, that Cyrus the king had set aside. And when Cyrus the king had commanded to bring them, he gave them to Mithridates the treasurer, and to Sanabassar the governor of Judea. And he sent away all the vessels. Then the third, who had spoken of women and of truth, began to speak. O ye men, is not the king strong? Are not men strong that rule over sea and land? But above all things truth beareth away the victory. Wine is wicked, the king is wicked, women are wicked, all the children of men are wicked, and such are all their works; and there is no truth in them; in their unrighteousness also they shall perish. As for truth, it endureth, and is always strong; it liveth and conquereth for evermore. With her there is no accepting of persons or rewards; but she doeth the things that are just, and refraineth from all unjust and wicked things; and all men do well like of her works. Neither in her judgment is any unrighteousness; and she is the strength, kingdom, power, and majesty, of all ages. Blessed be the God of truth. And with that he held his peace. And all the people then shouted, and said, Great is truth, and mighty above all things. Then the king said unto him… And when these three had spoken, the king said unto them, What shall we do? And they said, We will write three things, and the king shall command that he whose writing shall be found the wisest, shall have great gifts and great honour from the king. One wrote, Wine is the strongest. The second wrote, The king is the strongest. The third wrote, Women are strongest, but above all things truth beareth away the victory. Then the king and the princes looked one upon another. Then the king said unto the third, What is the strongest thing of all? Then the third, who had spoken of women and of truth, began to speak… And the king and the princes and the captains looked one upon another… Then the king said unto them, Tell me now, what is the strongest thing of all? Then the third, who had spoken of women and of truth, began to speak… And when the king had spoken thus, he commanded that they should bring the three young men before him, that they might declare their own sentences. And they said, We will write three things, and the king shall command that he whose writing shall be found the wisest, shall have great gifts and great honour from the king. One wrote, Wine is the strongest. The second wrote, The king is the strongest. The third wrote, Women are strongest, but above all things truth beareth away the victory. Then the king and the princes looked one upon another… Now when Darius the king sat on the throne of his kingdom, and the three young men which were of his bodyguards stood before him, the first said, Wine is the strongest. The second said, The king is the strongest. The third said, Women are strongest, but above all things truth beareth away the victory. Then the king and the princes looked one upon another… Now when Darius the king sat on the throne of his kingdom, and the three young men which were of his bodyguards stood before him…

CH2

And they laid the foundation of the house of God in the second year of the coming of Cyrus king of Persia. Then the prophets Haggai and Zechariah the son of Iddo prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem: and with them were the prophets of God helping them. Then the prophets Haggai and Zechariah… Then rose up Zerubbabel… And in the second year of the coming of Cyrus king of Persia… And in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also by writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the Lord God of Israel, (he is the God,) which is in Jerusalem. And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had raised, to go up to build the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with precious things, beside all that was willingly offered. Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his gods. Even those did Cyrus king of Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them unto Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah. And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, a thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives, Thirty basons of gold, silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels a thousand. All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivity that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem.

CH1

And the Lord sent against them the Chaldeans, and the Syrians, and the Egyptians, and the Medes, to destroy it. And he gave their kings and their priests and their prophets and their princes and their people into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he carried them away to Babylon. And they burnt the house of the Lord, and brake down the walls of Jerusalem, and burnt the towers thereof with fire, and destroyed all the glorious vessels thereof. And the residue of the people that were left in the city he carried away to Babylon, and they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia. And in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also by writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the Lord God of Israel, (he is the God,) which is in Jerusalem. And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had raised, to go up to build the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with precious things, beside all that was willingly offered. Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his gods; Even those did Cyrus king of Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them unto Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah. And this is the number of them… And the Lord sent against them the Chaldeans… And he gave their kings and their priests… And they burnt the house of the Lord… And the residue of the people that were left… And in the first year of Cyrus… And the children of Israel that were of the captivity kept the Passover… And the Levites that had been sanctified purified… And they offered the Passover for all… And the children of Israel that were come back from the captivity did eat… And they kept the feast of unleavened bread… And the priests and the Levites and they that were of Israel dwelt in Jerusalem… And the children of Israel which were come back from the captivity… Then Darius the king made a decree… Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum… The copy of the letter that Tatnai… Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea… Then ceased the work of the house of God… Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river… Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews… Then rose up Zerubbabel… At the same time came to them Tatnai… Then said we unto them after this manner… But the eye of their God was upon the elders… The copy of the letter that Tatnai… Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river… Then Tattenai… Then the prophets… Then rose up Zerubbabel… And in the second year of the coming of Cyrus… And in the first year of Cyrus… Then the king sent and called for all the governors… Then the third, who had spoken of women and of truth… O ye men, is not the king strong?… Then the king and the princes looked one upon another… Then the king said unto the third… Then the third, who had spoken… And when these three had spoken… Then the king and the princes and the captains looked… Then the king said unto them… And they said, We will write three things… One wrote, Wine is the strongest… The second wrote, The king is the strongest… The third wrote, Women are strongest… Then the king and the princes looked… Now when Darius the king sat on the throne… Then the three young men… Then the first said, Wine is the strongest… The second said, The king is the strongest… The third said, Women are strongest… Then the king and the princes looked… Now when Darius the king sat on the throne…

0i

Thus the restoration of the temple, the keeping of the Passover by the returned exiles, the separation from strange wives, the reading of the law by Esdras, the great assembly and covenant renewal, the dedication with joy and offerings, the building completed under Zerubbabel and Jeshua with the help of the prophets Haggai and Zechariah, the decree of Darius confirming Cyrus’s command, the opposition overcome, the foundation laid, the vessels restored, the return from Babylon, the stirring of the spirit of Cyrus, the proclamation to rebuild the house of YHWH in Jerusalem, and the carrying away into captivity under Nebuchadnezzar, all flow backward to the glorious Passover kept by King Josiah in Jerusalem, where the priests and Levites stood in their places, the burnt offerings and sin offerings were offered according to the law, the people sang with gladness, and the feast was kept as it had not been kept since the days of Samuel the prophet — the full cycle of judgment, exile, and divine mercy returning to the zealous reform and covenant faithfulness at the beginning.
