3 JOHN 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


Peace be to you. Friends greet you. Greet friends there each by name.
I hope to see you soon and we will talk face to face. I have written something to assembly but Diotrephes who likes to put himself first does not acknowledge our authority. So if I come I will bring up what he is doing talking wicked nonsense against us. Not satisfied with that he refuses to welcome brothers himself and also stops those who want to and puts them out of assembly.
Beloved do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from YHWH. Whoever does evil has not seen YHWH. Demetrius has received good testimony from everyone and from truth itself. We also add our testimony and you know that our testimony is true.
For this reason if I come I will bring up what he is doing. I have written something to assembly but Diotrephes who likes to put himself first does not acknowledge our authority.
I wrote to assembly but Diotrephes who loves to be first among them does not accept us.
Therefore we ought to support people like these that we may be fellow workers for truth.
They have gone out for sake of Name accepting nothing from Gentiles. Therefore we ought to support such men so that we may be fellow workers for truth.
I rejoiced greatly when brothers came and testified to your truth as indeed you are walking in truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in truth.
Beloved it is faithful thing you do in caring for brothers especially those who are strangers. They have testified to your love before assembly. You will do well to send them on their journey in manner worthy of YHWH.
The Elder to beloved Gaius whom I love in truth. Beloved I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health as it goes well with your soul.
