ACTS OF JOHN

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.

(Consolidated):

And John stood in the midst of the brothers and delivered his final teaching, saying: “My little children, love one another. Keep the commandments of the Lord. Hold fast to the faith which was delivered to you. For the light has come into the world and the darkness cannot overcome it.” And having said this, he lay down in the place where he used to pray, and gave up his spirit in peace, rejoicing greatly. And the brothers buried him with great honor, glorifying YHWH who had given such grace to His servant John. Then the brothers gathered around the body of the holy apostle John and buried him with great honor, singing hymns and giving glory to YHWH. And many signs and healings continued to occur at his tomb. And when he had said these things, he stretched himself out and fell asleep in peace. And the brothers buried him with great joy, glorifying the Lord. And John said: “I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that Day.” And having said this, he gave up his spirit in great peace. And the brothers took the body of the holy apostle and buried it with great honor, glorifying YHWH for all the wonders they had seen through him. Then the apostle John, having finished his course and his testimony, departed to the Lord in peace, leaving behind great joy and wonder among the brothers. Then the apostle John raised his hands and prayed a great prayer of thanksgiving to YHWH, commending the brothers to the care of the Anointed, warning them against every heresy and every false teaching that would arise after his departure. And John spoke to them of the great mystery of the cross which he had seen, saying: “The cross is the tree of life for us. It is the joining of opposites and the harmony of all things in YHWH.”
