ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.
Language: Koine Greek (earliest complete manuscripts from the 9th–11th century, w/ roots in 1st century CE autograph)

Book 20

And so I conclude this history, having endeavored to preserve the memory of our past for future generations, that they may know the dealings of YHWH with our nation from the creation of the world until this present time.
Now I have completed my work in twenty books, and I pray that those who read these things may do so with understanding, and may judge fairly concerning the truth of what has been written.
After the death of Festus, Albinus succeeded him as procurator. But before he arrived, King Agrippa had given the high priesthood to Ananus the son of Ananus. This Ananus was a bold man and a leader of the Sadducees, who were very rigid in judging offenders. He assembled the Sanhedrin and brought before them James, the brother of Yeshua who was called the Anointed, and some others. He accused them of breaking the law and delivered them to be stoned.
Thus ended the history of our nation, from the creation until the twelfth year of the reign of Nero Caesar.
I, Flavius Josephus, a priest from Jerusalem, have written this history with great care, using both my own knowledge and the records of others, for the benefit of those who desire to know the truth about the Jewish people and their customs.

Book 19

Thus Claudius became emperor, and he immediately showed favor to the Jews, confirming the rights granted by previous emperors and appointing Agrippa over additional territories. So ended the reign of Caligula, whose madness had nearly brought destruction upon the whole empire and especially upon the nation of the Jews.
Agrippa, having been raised with the emperors, used his influence wisely and prevented many evils that Caligula had intended against the holy city and the temple. He persuaded the new emperor to restore peace and to honor the ancient customs of our people.
When news of Caligula’s death reached Jerusalem, there was great rejoicing among the people, for they had feared the emperor would set up his statue in the temple. But through the providence of YHWH and the efforts of Agrippa, the crisis was averted.
Caligula grew ever more insane, demanding that he be worshipped as a god and ordering his image to be placed in the Holy of Holies. Petronius the governor delayed carrying out the order, fearing the revolt of the Jews, and Agrippa interceded with the emperor on behalf of the nation.
In the meantime, the Jews throughout the empire suffered many afflictions under Caligula’s rule, yet they remained faithful to the laws of their fathers and refused to worship the emperor as a god.
This book has contained the history of the times of Gaius Caligula, who reigned four years, during which the Jewish nation was brought into the greatest danger, but was wonderfully delivered by the providence of YHWH.

Book 18

Thus ended the history of the times of Tiberius Caesar, during which many tumults arose among the Jews, both in Judea and in all the world, and Pontius Pilate governed the nation with much cruelty until he was recalled to Rome.
Pilate also brought the images of Caesar into Jerusalem by night, which caused great disturbance among the people, who were ready to die rather than allow any violation of their ancestral laws. After much conflict, Pilate was forced to remove the images.
At this time there appeared a certain man named Yeshua, a wise man if indeed one ought to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works and a teacher of those who receive the truth with pleasure. He drew over to him both many of the Jews and many of the Gentiles. And when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principal men among us, had condemned him to the cross, those who loved him at the first did not forsake him, for he appeared to them alive again the third day, as the divine prophets had foretold these and ten thousand other wonderful things concerning him. And the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not extinct at this day.
There was about this time a certain man named John, who was called the Baptist. He was a good man and commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness toward one another and piety toward God, and so to come to baptism. Herod, fearing that his great influence over the people might lead to rebellion, sent an army and put him to death in the castle of Machaerus.
In the eighteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, many evils happened to the Jews in all parts of the world, yet the nation continued in the observance of their laws.
This book has contained the history from the death of Augustus to the death of Tiberius, during which time the affairs of the Jews were in great disorder, and many tumults arose in Judea and Samaria.

Book 17

Thus ended the reign of Herod the Great, who had ruled with great cruelty and splendor for thirty-seven years. After his death, the kingdom was divided among his sons, and Archelaus was made ethnarch of Judea, while Antipas and Philip received other territories. Great disturbances followed, and many revolts broke out among the people.
Herod, being very ill, ordered the execution of many nobles and his own son Antipater shortly before his death. He then divided his kingdom among his surviving sons and died in Jericho, after which his body was carried in great pomp to Herodium for burial.
When Herod perceived that his end was near, he summoned his nobles and commanded them to shut themselves in the hippodrome at Jericho, so that at his death the whole nation might mourn, whether they wished to or not. But his sister Salome released them after his death.
Herod grew increasingly paranoid and cruel in his final years, executing many of his own family and friends on suspicion of treason. Yet he continued to build great cities and temples, including the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem with great splendor.
This book has contained the history of the later years of Herod the Great, his domestic troubles, the execution of his sons, his final illness, and the division of his kingdom after his death.

Book 16

Thus Herod continued to reign with increasing suspicion and cruelty, executing many of his own family and nobles while lavishing honors on the Romans. He rebuilt many cities and fortified others, yet his domestic life was filled with strife and bloodshed until the end of his days.
Herod brought charges against his sons Alexander and Aristobulus before Augustus in Rome. Though they were temporarily reconciled, the hatred and suspicion in the family only grew worse, leading eventually to their execution.
Augustus received Herod with honor and confirmed his kingdom, but warned him to rule with greater moderation toward his own sons and subjects.
Herod sailed to Italy and met with Augustus, presenting gifts and defending his actions. Augustus reconciled him with his sons for a time and granted him additional favors.
In this period Herod undertook many great building projects, including the complete rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem with surpassing splendor, the founding of Caesarea, and the fortification of many cities throughout his realm.
This book has contained the history of the middle years of Herod the Great, his building projects, his alliances with Rome, and the growing conflicts within his own family that would eventually lead to great tragedy.

Book 15

Thus Herod continued to reign with increasing suspicion and cruelty, executing many of his own family and nobles while lavishing honors on the Romans. He rebuilt many cities and fortified others, yet his domestic life was filled with strife and bloodshed.
Herod brought charges against his sons Alexander and Aristobulus before Augustus in Rome. Though they were temporarily reconciled, the hatred and suspicion in the family only grew worse.
Augustus received Herod with honor and confirmed his kingdom, but warned him to rule with greater moderation toward his own sons and subjects.
Herod sailed to Italy and met with Augustus, presenting gifts and defending his actions. Augustus reconciled him with his sons for a time and granted him additional favors.
In this period Herod undertook many great building projects, including the complete rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem with surpassing splendor, the founding of Caesarea, and the fortification of many cities throughout his realm.
This book has contained the history of the middle years of Herod the Great, his building projects, his alliances with Rome, and the growing conflicts within his own family.

Book 14

Thus Herod the Great rose to power with the help of Rome, having been appointed king of the Jews by the Senate through the influence of Antony and Octavian. He captured Jerusalem with Roman assistance and began his long reign after the death of Antigonus.
The Parthians invaded Judea and set up Antigonus as king, carrying off Hyrcanus to Babylon. Herod fled to Rome, where he was declared King of the Jews by the Senate.
Pompey had earlier captured Jerusalem and entered the Holy of Holies, yet he left the Temple treasures untouched and restored the high priesthood to Hyrcanus.
This book has contained the history from the time of Pompey’s conquest of Jerusalem until the establishment of Herod as king, including the civil wars of the Romans, the Parthian invasion, and the rise of the Idumean dynasty.
Herod, son of Antipater, showed great skill and cruelty in securing his throne. He married Mariamne, the granddaughter of Hyrcanus, to strengthen his claim, and began to eliminate all rivals from the Hasmonean line.
After the battle of Actium, Herod transferred his allegiance to Octavian and was confirmed in his kingdom, having proven his loyalty by aiding Antony until the final defeat.

Book 13

Thus Aristobulus, having reigned for one year, died after much cruelty, and Alexander Jannaeus succeeded him, who warred against the neighboring nations and greatly expanded the borders of Judea, though his reign was marked by civil strife and bloodshed.
John Hyrcanus, having reigned in peace and prosperity for thirty-one years, died after destroying the Samaritan temple on Mount Gerizim and subduing many cities. He left the kingdom to his wife and eldest son Aristobulus.
Simon the high priest and his sons continued the work of their father Judas Maccabeus, cleansing the land of the heathen and establishing the independence of the Jewish nation. Simon was murdered by his son-in-law Ptolemy, and his son John Hyrcanus succeeded him.
Judas Maccabeus, after many victories against the Seleucids, fell in battle at Elasa. His brother Jonathan then took command and eventually secured the high priesthood through alliance with the Seleucid claimants.
Mattathias the priest, seeing the desecration of the Temple and the enforcement of Greek customs, slew the king’s officer and called the people to arms, beginning the revolt that would eventually lead to Jewish independence.
This book has contained the history of the Maccabean revolt from the time of Antiochus Epiphanes until the establishment of the Hasmonean dynasty under John Hyrcanus and his successors.

Book 12

Thus Judas Maccabeus, after many victories and the purification of the Temple, continued to fight for the freedom of the Jewish nation until he fell in battle at Elasa. His brothers Jonathan and Simon carried on the struggle until they secured independence and the high priesthood for the Hasmonean line.
When Antiochus Epiphanes returned from Egypt, he attacked Jerusalem, polluted the Temple, and set up the abomination of desolation upon the altar. Many faithful Jews chose death rather than violate the laws of their fathers.
Judas Maccabeus gathered those who remained zealous for the law and fought against the forces of the king, winning great victories and rededicating the Temple with joy and celebration.
Mattathias the priest, seeing the desecration of the holy place and the enforcement of Greek customs, rose up in zeal, slew the king’s officer, and called the people to arms, beginning the revolt that would eventually bring deliverance to Israel.
This book has contained the history from the time of Seleucus IV until the death of Judas Maccabeus, including the cruel persecution under Antiochus Epiphanes and the heroic Maccabean revolt that restored the worship of YHWH in the Temple.

Book 11

Thus the Temple was completed in the sixth year of the reign of Darius, and the Jews celebrated the dedication with great joy, offering sacrifices according to the law of Moses. Ezra the scribe later came from Babylon and taught the people the law of YHWH, leading them to put away foreign wives and renew the covenant.
Nehemiah, cupbearer to Artaxerxes, received permission to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the walls of the city. Despite opposition from Sanballat and Tobiah, the walls were completed in fifty-two days, and the people rejoiced with a great dedication ceremony.
After the death of Xerxes, Artaxerxes became king, and in his seventh year he sent Ezra the priest to Jerusalem with authority to teach the law and establish justice. Ezra found the people had intermarried with the peoples of the land and led them in repentance.
In the twentieth year of Artaxerxes, Nehemiah came to Jerusalem and inspected the ruined walls by night. He then rallied the people to rebuild them, saying, “Let us rise up and build,” and they strengthened their hands for the good work.
This book has contained the history from the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, who allowed the Jews to return and rebuild the Temple, through the reigns of Darius, Xerxes, and Artaxerxes, until the times of Ezra and Nehemiah.

Book 10

Thus the captivity of Judah was complete, and the people remained in Babylon until the time of Cyrus king of Persia, who in the first year of his reign issued a decree allowing the Jews to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the house of YHWH. Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and Cyrus, interpreting dreams and visions, and remained faithful until the end of his days.
Nebuchadnezzar was humbled by YHWH, driven from men, eating grass like an ox, until he acknowledged that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men. After his restoration he praised the God of heaven.
In the days of Zedekiah, the last king of Judah, the city was besieged by Nebuchadnezzar. The walls were broken, the Temple burned, and the people carried captive to Babylon. Jeremiah prophesied these things but was not heeded.
Jehoiakim and Jehoiachin were carried to Babylon, and many of the vessels of the house of YHWH were taken. Daniel and his companions were taken among the captives and proved faithful in the king’s court.
This book has contained the history from the reign of Hezekiah through the destruction of Jerusalem and the Babylonian captivity, showing how the words of the prophets were fulfilled because the people forsook the covenant of YHWH.

Book 9

Thus the kingdom of Israel was utterly destroyed by the Assyrians, and the ten tribes were carried away captive beyond the river, never to return as a united nation. Judah alone remained, until its own sins brought destruction upon it.
Hezekiah, king of Judah, trusted in YHWH and kept His commandments. He cleansed the Temple, restored the Passover, and prayed when Sennacherib king of Assyria came against Jerusalem. The angel of YHWH struck down 185,000 in the Assyrian camp in one night, and Sennacherib returned to Nineveh in shame.
Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, walked in the ways of his father David and sought YHWH. He sent teachers throughout the land to teach the people the Law of YHWH, and YHWH gave him rest from his enemies.
The prophet Elisha performed many mighty works in Israel, including the healing of Naaman the Syrian of leprosy, the multiplying of the widow’s oil, and the raising of the Shunammite’s son from the dead. He also struck the Syrian army with blindness and led them into Samaria.
Ahaz king of Judah did not do what was right in the eyes of YHWH. He sacrificed to the gods of Damascus and shut the doors of the house of YHWH. Yet YHWH delivered Jerusalem from the kings of Israel and Syria for the sake of His servant David.
This book has contained the history from the division of the kingdom until the fall of the northern kingdom of Israel to the Assyrians, together with the reigns of the kings of Judah up to Hezekiah.

Book 8

Thus Solomon completed the Temple and his own house in great splendor, and the glory of YHWH filled the house so that the priests could not stand to minister. Solomon dedicated the Temple with a great feast, and all Israel rejoiced. In his old age Solomon turned to foreign gods through the influence of his many wives, and the kingdom was torn from his son after his death.
The Queen of Sheba came to Jerusalem to test Solomon with hard questions, and when she saw his wisdom and the glory of his house, there was no more spirit in her. She gave the king much gold and spices, and Solomon gave her all she desired.
Hiram king of Tyre sent cedar and cypress wood, and skilled craftsmen to help Solomon build the Temple and his palace. Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in Galilee in return.
Solomon reigned over all Israel, and his wisdom was greater than the wisdom of all the people of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt. He spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs were a thousand and five. He built the Temple of YHWH in Jerusalem according to the plans of his father David, and it took seven years to complete.
In the fourth year of Solomon’s reign, he began to build the house of YHWH, and in the eleventh year it was finished. The Lord appeared to Solomon twice and warned him to walk in His ways.
This book has contained the history from the death of David until the death of Solomon, including the building of the Temple, the wisdom of Solomon, and the beginning of the division of the kingdom.

Book 7

Thus David, having reigned forty years over Israel, died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor. He was buried in the City of David, and Solomon his son reigned in his stead. David gave Solomon the plans for the Temple and charged him to build the house of YHWH.
After the rebellion of Absalom was crushed and Sheba’s revolt put down, David returned to Jerusalem in triumph. He showed kindness to Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, and continued to administer justice and equity to all his people.
The Lord was angry with Israel again, and He moved David to number the people. Joab warned him, but David persisted. After the census, the prophet Gad offered David three choices of punishment. David chose the plague, and seventy thousand men died. When the angel stretched out his hand over Jerusalem to destroy it, YHWH repented of the evil and commanded the angel to stay his hand. David built an altar on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite, and the plague was stopped.
Absalom rose up against his father David and stole the hearts of the men of Israel. David fled from Jerusalem, crossed the Jordan, and prepared for battle. In the wood of Ephraim, Absalom was caught by his long hair in an oak tree. Joab killed him, and the rebellion ended. David mourned greatly for Absalom, crying, “O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would God I had died for thee!”
David committed adultery with Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hittite, and arranged for Uriah’s death in battle. The prophet Nathan confronted him with the parable of the ewe lamb, and David repented, saying, “I have sinned against YHWH.” Nathan declared that YHWH had put away his sin, but the child born to Bathsheba would die. David fasted and prayed, but the child died. Later Bathsheba bore Solomon, whom YHWH loved and who was called Jedidiah.
David brought the Ark of the Covenant from the house of Obed-Edom to Jerusalem with great rejoicing, dancing before YHWH with all his might. Michal the daughter of Saul despised him in her heart for this.
David was anointed king over all Israel at Hebron, and he conquered the stronghold of Zion, which became the City of David. He defeated the Philistines, the Moabites, the Syrians, and many other nations, and established his kingdom with justice and mercy.
This book has contained the full history of the reign of David the king, from his anointing over all Israel until his death, including his wars, his sin and repentance, the rebellion of Absalom, and his preparations for the Temple.

Book 6

Thus Saul and his sons died on Mount Gilboa, and the kingdom passed to David the son of Jesse, whom YHWH had chosen. The Philistines took the bodies of Saul and his sons, but the men of Jabesh-Gilead recovered them and gave them honorable burial. David mourned greatly for Saul and Jonathan, saying, “How the mighty have fallen!”
Samuel the prophet died and was buried in Ramah. All Israel lamented him. After his death Saul continued to persecute David, who fled to the wilderness and lived among the Philistines for a time to escape Saul’s hand.
David spared Saul’s life twice when he had the opportunity to kill him, showing mercy and declaring that he would not stretch forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed. Saul wept and confessed his sin, yet his jealousy returned.
David slew Goliath the Philistine champion with a sling and a stone in the name of YHWH, and the Philistines fled. Jonathan, Saul’s son, loved David as his own soul and made a covenant with him. Saul became jealous of David’s popularity and sought to kill him.
The people demanded a king like the nations, and YHWH told Samuel to anoint Saul the son of Kish. Saul was tall and handsome, but later disobeyed the word of YHWH by sparing the best of the Amalekite spoil. Samuel declared that the kingdom would be torn from him and given to a man after God’s own heart.
Samuel judged Israel all his days, going from city to city. When he grew old, the elders asked for a king. Samuel warned them of the ways of a king, but they insisted. YHWH told Samuel to listen to their voice.
This book has contained the history from the death of Eli the high priest and the capture of the Ark by the Philistines, through the ministry of Samuel the prophet and judge, the anointing and reign of Saul the first king, his rejection by YHWH, and the rise of David until the death of Saul.

Book 5

Thus the people served YHWH all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, and the land had rest from war. But after that generation died, a new generation arose who did not know YHWH nor the works He had done for Israel, and they turned to the gods of the nations around them.
The Ark of the Covenant was captured by the Philistines at Ebenezer, and the glory departed from Israel. Eli the high priest fell backward and died upon hearing the news. Yet YHWH struck the Philistines with tumors and returned the Ark to the land of Israel after seven months.
Samson the Nazirite judged Israel for twenty years, delivering them from the Philistines. He killed a lion with his bare hands, burned the Philistines’ fields with foxes tied tail to tail, slew a thousand men with the jawbone of a donkey, and in the end pulled down the temple of Dagon upon himself and three thousand Philistines.
Jephthah the Gileadite made a rash vow and sacrificed his only daughter after defeating the Ammonites. He also fought against the men of Ephraim when they quarreled with him.
Gideon, also called Jerubbaal, destroyed the altar of Baal, defeated the Midianites with three hundred men carrying trumpets and torches, and refused to become king, saying, “YHWH shall rule over you.” Yet after his death the people turned again to Baal.
Deborah the prophetess and Barak defeated Sisera and the Canaanites at the waters of Megiddo. The stars fought from heaven against Sisera, and the land had rest for forty years.
Ehud the left-handed judge killed Eglon king of Moab and delivered Israel from Moabite oppression for eighty years.
Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, was the first judge. He delivered Israel from Cushan-Rishathaim king of Aram, and the land had rest for forty years.
After the death of Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of YHWH, the children of Israel asked YHWH who should go up first against the Canaanites to fight against them. Judah went up, and YHWH delivered the land into their hand. But they did not drive out all the inhabitants, and the people soon turned aside after other gods.
This book has contained the history from the death of Joshua until the death of Eli the high priest — the period of the Judges — showing how Israel repeatedly fell into idolatry and oppression, yet YHWH raised up deliverers when they cried out to Him.

Book 4

Thus Moses the servant of YHWH died in the land of Moab, according to the word of YHWH, and no man knows his burial place to this day. The children of Israel wept for Moses thirty days in the plains of Moab. Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him, and the children of Israel hearkened unto him and did as YHWH commanded Moses.
Balaam the son of Beor lifted up his eyes and saw Israel dwelling according to their tribes, and the Spirit of God came upon him. He blessed them, saying, “How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!” Yet he gave evil counsel to Balak, teaching the Moabites to tempt the children of Israel to idolatry and fornication at Baal-Peor, and twenty-four thousand died in the plague.
The daughters of Zelophehad came before Moses and Eleazar the priest and the princes, saying, “Our father died in the wilderness and had no sons. Why should the name of our father be done away from among his family because he had no son? Give unto us therefore a possession among the brethren of our father.” And YHWH commanded Moses that the inheritance should pass to the daughters, and this became a statute and ordinance in Israel.
The Reubenites, Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh received their inheritance east of the Jordan because they had much cattle. Moses warned them that they must go armed before their brethren until the land was conquered, and they agreed.
Moses numbered the people again in the plains of Moab by the Jordan, and the total of the men of war was six hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty. The land was to be divided by lot according to the names of the tribes.
This book has contained the history from the second numbering of the people in the wilderness until the death of Moses the servant of YHWH — the wanderings, the victories over Sihon and Og, the sin at Baal-Peor, the appointment of Joshua, and the final preparations for entering the Promised Land.

Book 3

Thus the Tabernacle was reared up on the first day of the first month in the second year after the Exodus, and the glory of YHWH filled it so that Moses could not enter. The cloud covered the Tent by day, and fire by night, guiding the children of Israel through all their journeys.
The people murmured again for flesh, and YHWH sent quail in abundance, but while the meat was still in their mouths a plague struck many of them, and the place was called Kibroth Hattaavah.
At Rephidim the people quarreled for water, and Moses struck the rock at Horeb as YHWH commanded, and water came out. Amalek came and fought with Israel, and Joshua defeated them while Moses held up his hands with the help of Aaron and Hur.
In the third month after leaving Egypt the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sinai. YHWH spoke to Moses from the mountain and gave the Ten Commandments and the Book of the Covenant. The people promised to obey all that YHWH had spoken.
Moses went up the mountain for forty days and forty nights. YHWH gave him the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God, and the pattern for the Tabernacle, the Ark, the priesthood of Aaron and his sons, and all the holy garments and vessels.
This book has contained the history from the departure out of Egypt until the erection of the Tabernacle in the wilderness of Sinai — the crossing of the Red Sea, the giving of the Law, the building of the Tabernacle, and the ordering of the camp and priesthood.

Book 2

Thus the children of Israel went out of Egypt with a high hand, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children, and a mixed multitude went with them. They took with them the bones of Joseph and great spoil from the Egyptians. YHWH led them not by the way of the land of the Philistines, but by the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea, and the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night went before them.
Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and YHWH caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night and made the sea dry land. The children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon dry ground, and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left. The Egyptians pursued and went in after them, but YHWH looked upon the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud and troubled their host. The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen, and there remained not so much as one of them.
Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song unto YHWH: “I will sing unto YHWH, for He hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath He thrown into the sea. YHWH is my strength and song, and He is become my salvation.”
After the ten plagues had come upon Egypt, Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. He called for Moses and Aaron by night and said, “Rise up and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel, and go, serve YHWH as ye have said. Take also your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and be gone.”
The Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of cattle. But against any of the children of Israel the Lord put a difference, and no plague came upon them.
Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days. They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days, but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
Then the Lord said unto Moses, “Stretch out thine hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt.” And there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
And the Lord said unto Moses, “Stretch forth thine hand toward heaven, that there may be locusts in the land of Egypt.” And the locusts came up and covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened, and they did eat every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees.
And the Lord said unto Moses, “Stretch out thine hand over the sea, that the locusts may come upon the land of Egypt.” Wait—no, that was earlier. The boils came upon man and beast. Then the murrain upon the cattle. Then the flies. Then the lice. Then the frogs. Then the river turned to blood.
And YHWH spoke unto Moses, saying, “Go in unto Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, that I might show these My signs before him, and that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son and of thy son’s son what things I have wrought in Egypt.”
This book has contained the history from the death of Isaac to the departure of the children of Israel out of Egypt — the story of Joseph, the oppression in Egypt, the birth and calling of Moses, the ten plagues, and the Exodus under the mighty hand of YHWH.

Book 1

This book has contained the history from the creation of the world until the death of Isaac, including the fall of Adam, the flood of Noah, the tower of Babel, the call of Abram, the covenant with Abraham, the birth of Isaac, and the early generations of the patriarchs.
In the beginning YHWH created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And YHWH said, “Let there be light,” and there was light. And YHWH saw the light that it was good, and divided the light from the darkness. And the evening and the morning were the first day.
Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran died, and Abram took Sarai to wife. Terah took Abram, Sarai, and Lot and went forth from Ur of the Chaldees to go into the land of Canaan, and they came unto Haran and dwelt there.
The whole earth was of one language and one speech, and the people said, “Come, let us build us a city and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven.” YHWH came down and confounded their language, and they left off building the city, which was called Babel.
Thus the generations of Adam continued until the flood, and Noah found grace in the eyes of YHWH. He built the ark as commanded and saved his house and the animals from the waters that covered the earth for a hundred and fifty days. After the flood, Noah offered sacrifice, and YHWH smelled a sweet savor and promised never again to curse the ground for man’s sake.

Book 0 Introduction

Those who read these books with understanding will see that the Jewish nation is of great antiquity and has observed the laws given by YHWH from the beginning of the world.
I have undertaken this work so that the world may know the truth about our people and our customs, and that the antiquity of our laws and our history may be clearly seen, using both our own sacred books and the testimonies of other writers.
I, Flavius Josephus, a priest of the Jews and one who has fought against the Romans, now write this history for the instruction of all who desire to know the truth concerning the Jewish nation, from the creation of the world until my own times.
This is the beginning of my history of the Jewish Antiquities, written in the Greek tongue for the benefit of all nations, that they may understand the dealings of YHWH with our people from the very first.
