APOCALYPSE OF PETER 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript & Ethiopian traditions with YHWH framework.



Then the Lord Jesus the Anointed said to me: “Peter, this is the end of all things and the revelation which you must proclaim to the world so that men may repent and be saved from the coming judgment.” Then the heavens were closed and the vision ended.
Then the Lord showed me the place of rest for the righteous where there is no night but eternal light and joy and the sinners in the lake of fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Then I saw the Son of Man coming in His glory with all His holy angels and sitting upon the throne of His glory. And the books were opened and all the dead were judged according to their deeds.
Then the angels separated the righteous from the sinners as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. The righteous went into eternal life but the sinners into everlasting punishment.
Then I saw the righteous shining like the sun in the kingdom of their Father while the sinners wept and gnashed their teeth in the outer darkness where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.
Then the Lord commanded that the vision be sealed until the last days. And Peter awoke from the vision and gave thanks to YHWH and told all these things to his companions.

And when He had said this, He departed from them and they returned to Jerusalem rejoicing and glorifying YHWH.
Then the Lord Jesus the Anointed said to me: “Peter, this is the beginning of the revelation which I give you. Proclaim it to the world so that men may repent and believe and be saved from the coming judgment.” Then the heavens were closed and the vision ended.
And as we sat upon the Mount of Olives, the Lord said to us: “Sit down upon this mountain and I will show you the signs of the end and the day of judgment.” And we sat down and the Lord began to speak to us saying: “When the end of the world comes, the first sign will be that the trees will drip blood and the stones will cry out. Then the heavens will be rolled up like a scroll and the stars will fall. Then the Son of Man will come in His glory with all His holy angels and will sit upon the throne of His glory. And all nations will be gathered before Him and He will separate them one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.”
And as we were sitting upon the Mount of Olives with the Lord, we asked Him about the signs of the end and He answered us saying: “When the end draws near, there will be signs in heaven and on earth. The trees will drip with blood and the stones will cry out with a loud voice. The heavens will be rolled up like a scroll and the stars will fall from heaven. Then the Son of Man will come in His glory with all His holy angels and will sit upon the throne of His glory. And He will judge all nations and separate the righteous from the sinners.”
