APOCALYPSE OF PAUL 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.
Language: Latin (earliest complete manuscripts, 5th–6th century CE; w/ roots in Greek original, 3rd–4th century)

Then Paul was caught up again into Paradise and saw things that no tongue can utter. And the Lord said to him: “Go and proclaim these things to the children of men, that they may repent while there is still time, for My mercy is great but My judgment is sure.”
And I, Paul, awoke from the vision and gave thanks to YHWH, glorifying Him for the revelation He had granted me. I wrote down all these things for the strengthening of the saints and the warning of sinners.
The Lord showed me the paradise of the righteous, where there is no night, and the light is sevenfold brighter than the sun. There the saints shine like stars and rejoice forever in the presence of the glory of YHWH.
Then I saw the place of torment, where the wicked weep and gnash their teeth, and worms that never die consume them. And the Lord said, “This is the place prepared for those who did not repent and did not believe in My name.”
And the angel said to me: “This is the judgment of the living and the dead, according to their works. Those who have done good shall enter into eternal life, but those who have done evil shall go into eternal punishment.”
And I saw the great white throne and Him who sat upon it, before whose face the heaven and earth fled away. And the dead, small and great, stood before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.
Then the Lord commanded the sea to give up its dead, and Death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. And the holy city, New Jerusalem, came down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people, and God Himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.”
And He that sat upon the throne said, “Behold, I make all things new.” And He said unto me, “Write: for these words are true and faithful.”

Introduction

Then Paul was caught up into the third heaven and heard unspeakable words which it is not lawful for a man to utter. And the Lord said to him: “Go and proclaim these mysteries to the children of men, that they may repent and turn from their evil ways before the day of judgment comes.”
I, Paul, saw and heard things that no tongue can tell, and I wrote them down for the strengthening of the saints and the warning of sinners, according to the revelation granted me by the Lord.
The angel took me and brought me into Paradise, where I saw the righteous shining like the sun, and I heard voices saying, “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come.”
While I was in the body, I was caught up to the third heaven. There I saw things that cannot be told, and I received a revelation from the Lord concerning the secrets of the heavens and the judgments to come.
This is the revelation which the Lord Yeshua the Anointed gave to Paul when he was caught up into Paradise, that he might make known to the world the things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man.
