BOOK OF ENOCH 

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex / with Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Ethiopic / Aramaic fragments with YHWH framework alignment.

And Enoch was taken up into the seventh heaven, and he saw the Lord sitting upon His throne, and the ten great orders of angels standing before Him. And the Lord said to Enoch: “Write down all these things which you have seen, and preserve the books for the generations to come, that they may know the works of YHWH from the beginning to the end.”
And Enoch was taken up into the sixth heaven, and he saw the seven bands of angels who rule the seasons and the years.
And Enoch was taken up into the fifth heaven, and he saw the Grigori, the Watchers who had transgressed, and he saw their great torment.
And Enoch was taken up into the fourth heaven, and he saw the paths of the sun and the moon, and the angels who lead them.
And Enoch was taken up into the third heaven, and he saw Paradise, and the tree of life, and he saw the place prepared for the righteous.
And Enoch was taken up into the second heaven, and he saw there darkness greater than earthly darkness, and he saw the prisoners hanging, and he was afraid.
And Enoch was taken up into the first heaven, and he saw there a very great light, and he saw the treasuries of the snow and the treasuries of the dew, and the angels guarding them.
And the Lord said to Michael: “Go and take Enoch from his earthly clothing, and put him into the garments of My glory, and bring him up before My face.” And Michael did as YHWH commanded, and he took Enoch and clothed him in the garments of glory, and brought him up before the face of YHWH.
And the Lord said to Enoch: “Stand before My face forever.” And the Lord said to Enoch: “Be not afraid, Enoch, for I have appointed you to be the scribe of My books, and you shall write down all that I shall tell you.”
And after this Enoch began to speak from a book and said: “I, Enoch, a righteous man, whose eyes were opened by YHWH, saw the vision of the Holy One in the heavens, which the angels showed me, and from them I heard everything, and I understood what I saw, but not for this generation, but for a remote one which is to come.”
And now, my son Methuselah, all the words that I have spoken to you, and all the books that I have written to you, give them to your children, and they shall give them to their children, and they shall give them to their children, until the generation of the world.
And now I tell you, my son Methuselah, and I show you all the things that I have seen in the heavens, and all the visions that I have seen, and all the words that I have heard from the holy angels, and all the words that I have heard from the mouth of the Holy Great One.
And after this I saw another dream, and I will show it to you, my son.
The words of the blessing of Enoch, wherewith he blessed the elect and righteous, who will be living in the day of tribulation, when all the wicked and godless are to be removed. And he took up his parable and said: “Enoch, a righteous man, whose eyes were opened by YHWH, saw the vision of the Holy One in the heavens, which the angels showed me, and from them I heard everything, and I understood what I saw, but not for this generation, but for a remote one which is to come.”
And Enoch began to speak from a book, and said: “I, Enoch, a righteous man, whose eyes were opened by the Lord, saw the vision of the Holy One in the heavens, which the angels showed me, and from them I heard everything, and I understood what I saw, but not for this generation, but for a remote one which is to come.”
The book of the words of righteousness, and of the reprimand of the eternal Watchers, in accordance with the command of the Holy Great One in that vision.
And now, my children, I say to you and give you the paths of righteousness, and I show them to you again, that you may know them. The paths of the righteous are straight, but the paths of the wicked are full of stumbling blocks and lead down to destruction.
And now I show you that light and darkness, day and night, see all your sins. Be not godless in your hearts, and lie not, and do not change the words of uprightness, nor charge with lying the words of the Holy Great One, nor take account of your idols. For all your lying and all your godlessness issue not in righteousness but in great sin. And now I know this mystery: that sinners will alter and pervert the words of righteousness in many ways, and will speak wicked words, and lie, and practice great deceits, and write books concerning their words. But when they write down truthfully all my words in their languages, and they change them and make them into lies, they will speak many lies and work great deceits. And they will say: “We have toiled laboriously and we have acquired great riches,” but all will be taken from them suddenly. And they will be left with nothing.
And I swear to you, to the wise and to the foolish, that you will have many joys upon the earth. For you men will put on more adornments than a woman, and more colored garments than a virgin. In royalty and in grandeur and in power, and in silver and in gold and in purple, and in splendor and in food they will be poured out as water. For the judgment of the Great One is coming, and all these will be delivered into the hands of the righteous, and they will be safe, and they will inherit the earth, and they will be filled with every good thing.
And then there will be another generation, and many will be its faith, and it will not be forsaken. And woe to those who build their houses with sin, for from the whole foundation they will be pulled down, and by the sword they will fall. And those who acquire gold and silver will suddenly perish in the judgment. Woe to you, you rich, for you have trusted in your riches, and from your riches you will depart, because you have not remembered the Most High in the days of your riches. You have committed blasphemy and iniquity, and you have been ready for the day of slaughter, and the day of darkness, and the day of the great judgment. Thus I speak and declare to you: He who created you will overthrow you, and for your fall there will be no compassion, and your Creator will rejoice at your destruction. And your righteous ones in those days will be a reproach to the sinners and the godless.

But with the righteous He will make peace, and will protect the elect, and mercy shall be upon them. And they shall all belong to YHWH, and they shall prosper, and they shall all be blessed. And He will help them all, and light shall appear unto them, and He will make peace with them.
And behold! He comes with ten thousands of His holy ones to execute judgment upon all, and to destroy all the ungodly: and to convict all flesh of all the works of their ungodliness which they have ungodly committed, and of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
And all shall be afraid, and the Watchers shall quake, and great fear and trembling shall seize them unto the ends of the earth. And the high mountains shall be shaken, and the high hills shall be made low, and they shall melt like wax before the flame.
And the earth shall be wholly rent in sunder, and all that is upon the earth shall perish, and there shall be a judgment upon all.
And behold, the Great and Holy One comes forth from His dwelling, and the God of the world treads upon Mount Sinai, appears from His camp, and appears in the strength of His might from the highest heaven.
The words of blessing of Enoch according to which he blessed the elect and the righteous who will be living in the day of tribulation, when all the wicked and godless are to be removed. And Enoch, a righteous man, saw the vision of the Holy One in the heavens.
