Codex Tchacos

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.
Original Language: Coptic (Sahidic dialect, 4th century manuscript, translated from earlier Greek).

LETTER OF PETER TO PHILIP (4)

And the apostles answered and said: “Lord, we will do everything you have commanded us, for you are our Lord and our God.” Then the Lord departed from them in peace. And the apostles gathered together and went up to Jerusalem. And they gave thanks to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit, glorifying YHWH.
Then Peter said to Philip: “Our brother Philip, the Lord has commanded us to go out into the world and preach the gospel of the kingdom. Let us therefore divide the regions among us and go forth in the power of YHWH.” And they all agreed.
Philip answered and said: “My brother Peter, the Lord has appeared to me and said, ‘Philip, go and preach the gospel of the kingdom in all the world.’ Therefore I will go to the region that has been appointed to me.” And Peter blessed him.
The apostles gathered together and prayed, saying: “O Lord, give us power and strength that we may go forth and preach your gospel in all the world, as you have commanded us.” And a great light appeared and the Lord stood in their midst and said to them: “Peace be with you. Go forth and preach the gospel of the kingdom. I am with you always.”
Then the apostles said to the Lord: “Lord, you have commanded us to go into the world and preach the gospel. Tell us therefore how we should preach and what we should say to the people.” The Lord answered and said: “Go and preach the gospel of the kingdom. I have given you power and authority over all the power of the enemy. Heal the sick, cast out demons, and proclaim that the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”

THE LETTER OF PETER TO PHILIP (3)

Then the apostles answered and said: “Lord, we will do everything you have commanded us, for you are our Lord and our God.” Then the Lord departed from them in peace. And the apostles gathered together and went up to Jerusalem. And they gave thanks to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit, glorifying YHWH.
Then Peter said to Philip: “Our brother Philip, the Lord has commanded us to go out into the world and preach the gospel of the kingdom. Let us therefore divide the regions among us and go forth in the power of YHWH.” And they all agreed.
Philip answered and said: “My brother Peter, the Lord has appeared to me and said, ‘Philip, go and preach the gospel of the kingdom in all the world.’ Therefore I will go to the region that has been appointed to me.” And Peter blessed him.
The apostles gathered together and prayed, saying: “O Lord, give us power and strength that we may go forth and preach your gospel in all the world, as you have commanded us.” And a great light appeared and the Lord stood in their midst and said to them: “Peace be with you. Go forth and preach the gospel of the kingdom. I am with you always.”
Then the apostles said to the Lord: “Lord, you have commanded us to go into the world and preach the gospel. Tell us therefore how we should preach and what we should say to the people.” The Lord answered and said: “Go and preach the gospel of the kingdom. I have given you power and authority over all the power of the enemy. Heal the sick, cast out demons, and proclaim that the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”
Then the Lord Jesus the Anointed appeared to them and said: “Peace be with you. I am your Lord and your God. Do not be afraid. Go into the world and preach the gospel of the kingdom. I will be with you always, even to the end of the age.”
And the apostles said: “Lord, you have commanded us to go into the world. What is the way we should go?” The Lord said: “Go into the world and preach the gospel that I have given you. Heal the sick, cast out demons, and proclaim the kingdom. I give you power over all the power of the enemy.”

Allogenes (2)

And the great Invisible Spirit, the Father of the All, the One who is ineffable and unknowable, the One who is beyond all thought and all silence — He is the source of all. He is the root of the All. He is the Light that is in the Light. He is the Life that is in the Life. He is the Mind that is in the Mind. He is the One who is before the All. He is the All, and He is above the All.
Allogenes said: “I was in the great aeon of the Barbelo, and I saw the divine Autogenes. I saw the Triple-Powered One, the great Invisible Spirit who is above all. I saw the glory of the One who is hidden. I saw the light that is in the light. I saw the life that is in the life. I saw the mind that is in the mind. I saw the silence that is in the silence. I saw the unknowable One who is before the All.”
And the great Invisible Spirit said to Allogenes: “You have seen the glory of the One who is before the All. You have seen the Triple-Powered One. You have seen the Barbelo. You have seen the divine Autogenes. You have seen the light that is in the light. You have seen the life that is in the life. You have seen the mind that is in the mind. You have seen the silence that is in the silence. You have seen the unknowable One who is beyond all thought.”
Then Allogenes said: “I am Allogenes, the stranger. I have come to know the One who is before the All. I have seen the glory of the Invisible Spirit. I have seen the Triple-Powered One. I have seen the Barbelo and the divine Autogenes. I have seen the light, the life, the mind, and the silence that are in the light, the life, the mind, and the silence. I have seen the unknowable One who is beyond all thought and all silence.”
And the great Invisible Spirit said: “Blessed are you, Allogenes, for you have known the One who is before the All. You have seen the glory of the unknowable One. You have seen the Triple-Powered One. You have seen the Barbelo and the divine Autogenes. You have seen the light, the life, the mind, and the silence. Go now and proclaim what you have seen to those who are worthy.”

GOSPEL OF JUDAS (1)

Then Judas said: “I know who you are and from where you have come. You are from the immortal realm of Barbelo. But I am not worthy to utter the name of the one who has sent you.” And Yeshua said to him: “Step away from the others and I shall tell you the mysteries of the kingdom. It is possible for you to reach it, but you will grieve much.”
The twelve disciples said to Yeshua: “We have seen you in a vision, for you appeared to us in a dream.” Yeshua answered: “Why have you been troubled? Truly I say to you, no generation of this aeon will know me.”
Then Judas said to him: “Teacher, what is the fruit of the knowledge of the tree?” Yeshua said: “The fruit of the tree is the knowledge of good and evil. Adam ate of it and brought death into the world. But I have come to bring life.”
Yeshua said: “The rulers of this world are blind. They do not know the truth. But you, Judas, will exceed all of them. For you will sacrifice the man that clothes me, so that my inner body may be released.”
The disciples said: “Master, where will you go?” Yeshua said: “I go to the place from which I came. You will seek me but not find me.”
Then Judas said: “Teacher, as you have listened to all of them, now listen to me. I have seen a great vision.” Yeshua said: “Tell me your vision.”
Judas said: “I saw myself as the twelfth disciple. The others were stoning me.” Yeshua said: “You will be cursed by the other generations, but you will come to rule over them.”
Yeshua said: “Judas, you will exceed all of them. For you will sacrifice the man that clothes me.”
The twelve disciples were grieved. Yeshua said to them: “Why are you troubled? Truly I say to you, no one born of this realm will know me.”
Then Judas said to Yeshua: “Teacher, what is the fruit of the knowledge of the tree?” Yeshua said: “The fruit of the tree is the knowledge of good and evil. Adam ate of it and brought death into the world. But I have come to bring life.”
Yeshua said: “The rulers of this world are blind. They do not know the truth. But you, Judas, will exceed all of them. For you will sacrifice the man that clothes me, so that my inner body may be released.”

Codex Tchacos Introduction

These are the secret words of revelation given to the chosen ones in the last days. The Codex Tchacos preserves the hidden teachings of the Anointed and the Gnostic vision of the divine realms. Let the one who has ears to hear, hear. Let the one who seeks the light, find it. The words of Judas, Allogenes, Peter to Philip, and the resurrection mysteries are preserved here for the elect.
The great Invisible Spirit, the Father of the All, the unknowable One who is beyond all thought and silence, has revealed these mysteries through His Son and through the holy apostles. Blessed is the one who reads and understands these words, for they lead to the knowledge that saves.
In the name of the Father, the Mother, and the Son, and the holy aeons of the Barbelo, these writings were preserved in the desert for the generation that would come at the end of the age. The one who seeks the truth will find it here.
The Codex Tchacos contains the Gospel of Judas, the revelation of Allogenes, the letter of Peter to Philip, and the book of the resurrection. These are the hidden teachings given to the disciples in secret, to be revealed only to those who are worthy.
