COLOSSIANS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex 

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH4

Grace be with you.
The greeting is by my own hand of Paul. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.
Epaphras who is one of you a servant of the Anointed Yeshua greets you always struggling on your behalf in his prayers that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of YHWH. For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hierapolis. Luke the beloved physician greets you as does Demas. Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea and to Nympha and the church in her house. And when this letter has been read among you have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea. And say to Archippus “See that you fulfill the ministry that you have received in the Lord.”
Tychicus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I have sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts.
Continue steadfastly in prayer being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time pray also for us that YHWH may open to us a door for the word to declare the mystery of the Anointed on account of which I am in prison — that I may make it clear which is how I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious seasoned with salt so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.
Masters treat your bondservants justly and fairly knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Whatever you do work heartily as for the Lord and not for men knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord the Anointed. For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done and there is no partiality.
Bondservants obey in everything those who are your earthly masters not by way of eye-service as people-pleasers but with sincerity of heart fearing the Lord.
Fathers do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged.
Wives submit to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands love your wives and do not be harsh with them. Children obey your parents in everything for this pleases the Lord.

CH3

Whatever you do work heartily as for the Lord and not for men knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord the Anointed. For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done and there is no partiality. Masters treat your bondservants justly and fairly knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Bondservants obey in everything those who are your earthly masters not by way of eye-service as people-pleasers but with sincerity of heart fearing the Lord. Whatever you do work heartily as for the Lord and not for men.
Children obey your parents in everything for this pleases the Lord. Fathers do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. Wives submit to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands love your wives and do not be harsh with them.
Put on then as YHWH’s chosen ones holy and beloved compassionate hearts kindness humility meekness and patience bearing with one another and if one has a complaint against another forgiving each other as the Lord has forgiven you so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of the Anointed rule in your hearts to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of the Anointed dwell in you richly teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to YHWH. And whatever you do in word or deed do everything in the name of the Lord Yeshua giving thanks to YHWH the Father through Him.
If then you have been raised with the Anointed seek the things that are above where the Anointed is seated at the right hand of YHWH. Set your minds on things that are above not on things that are on earth. For you have died and your life is hidden with the Anointed in YHWH. When the Anointed who is your life appears then you also will appear with Him in glory.
Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality impurity passion evil desire and covetousness which is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of YHWH is coming. In these you too once walked when you were living in them. But now you must put them all away: anger wrath malice slander and obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.

CH2

These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.
If with the Anointed you died to the elemental spirits of the world why as if you were still alive in the world do you submit to regulations — “Do not handle Do not taste Do not touch” referring to things that all perish as they are used — according to human precepts and teachings?
Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath. These are a shadow of the things to come but the substance belongs to the Anointed.
And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh YHWH made alive together with Him having forgiven us all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This He set aside nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in Him.
In Him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands by putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of the Anointed having been buried with Him in baptism in which you were also raised with Him through faith in the powerful working of YHWH who raised Him from the dead.
See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit according to human tradition according to the elemental spirits of the world and not according to the Anointed. For in Him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily and you have been filled in Him who is the head of all rule and authority.
For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face that their hearts may be encouraged being knit together in love to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of YHWH’s mystery which is the Anointed in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body yet I am with you in spirit rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in the Anointed.

CH1

Of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from YHWH that was given to me for you to make the word of YHWH fully known the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to His saints. To them YHWH chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery which is the Anointed in you the hope of glory. Him we proclaim warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in the Anointed. For this I toil struggling with all His energy that He powerfully works within me.
Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in the afflictions of the Anointed on behalf of His body that is the church.
If indeed you continue in the faith stable and steadfast not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven and of which I Paul became a minister.
He has now reconciled in His body of flesh by His death in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before Him.
And through Him to reconcile to Himself all things whether on earth or in heaven making peace by the blood of His cross. And you who once were alienated and hostile in mind doing evil deeds.
For by Him all things were created in heaven and on earth visible and invisible whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities — all things were created through Him and for Him. And He is before all things and in Him all things hold together. And He is the head of the body the church. He is the beginning the firstborn from the dead that in everything He might be preeminent. For in Him all the fullness of YHWH was pleased to dwell.
He is the image of the invisible YHWH the firstborn of all creation.
Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son in whom we have redemption the forgiveness of sins.
Since we heard of your faith in the Anointed Yeshua and of the love that you have for all the saints because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth the gospel which has come to you as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing — as it also does among you since the day you heard it and understood the grace of YHWH in truth just as you learned it from Epaphras our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of the Anointed on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
We always thank YHWH the Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed when we pray for you.
Paul an apostle of the Anointed Yeshua by the will of YHWH and Timothy our brother. To the saints and faithful brothers in the Anointed at Colossae. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father.

CH0 Introduction

We have not stopped praying for you, asking God to fill you with the knowledge of His will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives, so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please Him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to His glorious might so that you may have great endurance and patience, and giving joyful thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of His holy people in the kingdom of light. For He has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
All over the world this gospel is bearing fruit and growing, just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and truly understood God’s grace.
You learned it from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of the Anointed on our behalf, and who also told us of your love in the Spirit.
We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed, when we pray for you, because we have heard of your faith in Yeshua the Anointed and of the love you have for all God’s people.
Paul, an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, To God’s holy people in Colossae, the faithful brothers and sisters in the Anointed: Grace and peace to you from God our Father.
