DIDACHE

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.


CH16

Then the world-deceiver will appear as a son of YHWH and will work signs and wonders and the earth will be delivered into his hands. He will do lawless deeds such as have never been done since the beginning of the world. Then the creation of men will come into the fire of testing and many will be scandalized and perish. But those who endure in their faith will be saved by the Anointed. And then the signs of the truth will appear: first the sign of an opening in heaven then the sign of the sound of the trumpet and third the resurrection of the dead. Not of all but as it is said “The Lord will come and all His saints with Him.” Then the world will see the Lord coming upon the clouds of heaven.
Watch therefore for you do not know the hour in which our Lord is coming. Gather yourselves together frequently seeking the things that are profitable for your souls. For the whole time of your faith will not profit you if you are not made perfect in the last time. For in the last days false prophets and corrupters will be multiplied and the sheep will be turned into wolves and love will be turned into hate. For when lawlessness increases they will hate and persecute and betray one another. And then the deceiver of the world will appear as a son of YHWH and will do signs and wonders and the earth will be delivered into his hands. He will do lawless deeds such as have never been done since the beginning of the world. Then the creation of men will come into the fire of testing and many will be scandalized and perish. But those who endure in their faith will be saved by the Anointed.
Watch therefore for you do not know the day nor the hour in which the Lord is coming.
For in the last days false prophets and corrupters will be multiplied and the sheep will be turned into wolves and love will be turned into hate.

CH15

But let each one be reproved by the other according to the commandment of the Gospel and let no one speak to his neighbor in anger but in peace as you have it in the Gospel. And if anyone has done wrong to his neighbor let him not join in your prayer until he is reconciled that your sacrifice may not be profaned. For this is the word of the Lord: “In every place and time offer Me a pure sacrifice for I am a great King says YHWH and My name is wonderful among the nations.”
Therefore appoint for yourselves bishops and deacons worthy of the Lord meek and not lovers of money and truthful and approved for they also perform the service of the prophets and teachers for you. Do not despise them for they are your honored ones together with the prophets and teachers.
Elect for yourselves therefore bishops and deacons worthy of the Lord men meek and not lovers of money truthful and approved for they perform for you the service of the prophets and teachers. Do not despise them therefore for they are your honored ones together with the prophets and teachers.

CH14

For this is that which was spoken by the Lord: “In every place and time let there be offered to Me a pure sacrifice because I am a great King says YHWH and My name is wonderful among the nations.”
But let no one who has a quarrel with his companion join in the gathering until they are reconciled that your sacrifice may not be profaned. For this is the word spoken by the Lord.
On the Lord’s Day of the Lord come together break bread and give thanks after confessing your sins that your sacrifice may be pure.
On the Lord’s own day gather yourselves together and break bread and give thanks having first confessed your sins that your sacrifice may be pure.

CH13

Of money and clothes and every possession take the firstfruits as seems good to you and give according to the commandment.
If you bake bread take the firstfruits and give according to the commandment. Likewise when you open a jar of wine or of oil take the firstfruits and give to the prophets. Of oxen and of sheep likewise take the firstfruits and give to the prophets for they are your high priests.
Every true prophet who wishes to settle among you is worthy of his food. Likewise a true teacher is worthy as a workman of his food.
Every true prophet who wishes to settle among you is worthy of his maintenance. Likewise a true teacher is worthy as the workman of his maintenance. Therefore every firstfruit of the produce of the wine-press and of the threshing-floor of oxen and of sheep you shall take and give as the firstfruit to the prophets for they are your high priests. But if there is no prophet give to the poor.

CH12

But if he wishes to settle among you and is a craftsman let him work and eat. If he has no craft provide for him according to your understanding so that no one lives among you idle as a Christian. If he will not do so he is making merchandise of the Anointed. Beware of such people.
Let every one that comes in the Name of the Lord be received and then when you have proved him you shall know him for what he is for you shall have understanding on the right hand and on the left. If he who comes is a traveler receive him as far as two or three days as is sufficient. If he wishes to settle among you and is a craftsman let him work and eat. If he has no craft provide for him according to your understanding so that no one lives among you idle as a Christian. If he will not do so he is making merchandise of the Anointed. Beware of such people.
If he who comes is a traveler receive him as far as two or three days as is sufficient. If he wishes to settle among you and is a craftsman let him work and eat. If he has no craft provide for him according to your understanding so that no one lives among you idle as a Christian. If he will not do so he is making merchandise of the Anointed. Beware of such people.
Let every apostle who comes to you be received as the Lord. But he shall not remain more than one day. If there is need he may remain a second. But if he remains three days he is a false prophet. When an apostle departs let him take nothing but bread until he finds shelter. If he asks for money he is a false prophet.
Let every one that comes in the Name of the Lord be received…

CH11

But whoever shall say in the Spirit “Give me money” or anything else you shall not listen to him. But if he bids you to give for others that are in need let no one judge him. For every prophet who speaks in the Spirit is not to be tested or judged. For every sin shall be forgiven but this sin shall not be forgiven. But not every one that speaks in the Spirit is a prophet but only if he has the ways of the Lord. By their ways therefore the false prophet and the prophet shall be known. And every prophet who teaches the truth if he does not do what he teaches is a false prophet. And every prophet who is approved and true working for the mystery of the Church but not teaching others to do what he himself does shall not be judged by you for he has his judgment with YHWH. For so did the ancient prophets also. But whoever says in the Spirit “Give me money” or anything else you shall not listen to him.
Let every apostle who comes to you be received as the Lord. But he shall not remain more than one day. If there is need he may remain a second. But if he remains three days he is a false prophet. When an apostle departs let him take nothing but bread until he finds shelter. If he asks for money he is a false prophet.
Let every one that comes in the Name of the Lord be received and then when you have proved him you shall know him for what he is for you shall have understanding on the right hand and on the left. If he who comes is a traveler receive him as far as two or three days as is sufficient. If he wishes to settle among you and is a craftsman let him work and eat. If he has no craft provide for him according to your understanding so that no one lives among you idle as a Christian. If he will not do so he is making merchandise of the Anointed. Beware of such people.

CH10

Let grace come and let this world pass away. Hosanna to the Son of David! If any is holy let him come. If any is not let him repent. Maranatha! Amen.
But after you are filled give thanks thus: We thank You holy Father for Your holy Name which You have caused to dwell in our hearts and for the knowledge and faith and immortality which You have made known to us through Yeshua Your servant. To You be the glory forever. You Lord Almighty created all things for Your Name’s sake. You gave men food and drink to enjoy that they might give thanks to You. But to us You have given spiritual food and drink and life eternal through Your servant. Above all we thank You that You are mighty. To You be the glory forever.
After the distribution of the broken bread give thanks in this manner: We thank You our Father for the life and knowledge which You have made known to us through Yeshua Your servant. To You be the glory forever. As this broken bread was scattered upon the mountains and gathered together and became one so let Your Church be gathered together from the ends of the earth into Your kingdom. For Yours is the glory and the power through Yeshua the Anointed forever.

CH9

As this broken bread was scattered upon the mountains and gathered together and became one so let Your Church be gathered together from the ends of the earth into Your kingdom. For Yours is the glory and the power through Yeshua the Anointed forever.
We thank You our Father for the life and knowledge which You have made known to us through Yeshua Your servant. To You be the glory forever.
Concerning the broken bread give thanks thus: We thank You our Father for the life and knowledge which You have made known to us through Yeshua Your servant. To You be the glory forever. As this broken bread was scattered upon the mountains and gathered together and became one so let Your Church be gathered together from the ends of the earth into Your kingdom. For Yours is the glory and the power through Yeshua the Anointed forever.
Concerning the cup give thanks thus: We thank You our Father for the holy vine of David Your servant which You have made known to us through Yeshua Your servant. To You be the glory forever.
Concerning the Eucharist give thanks thus.

CH8

Our Father who are in heaven hallowed be Your Name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debt as we also forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one. For Yours is the power and the glory forever. Pray thus three times a day.
Do not pray as the hypocrites but as the Lord commanded in His Gospel.
Let your fasts be on the fourth day and the Preparation day. But do not fast as the hypocrites on the second and fifth days of the week for they fast on the second and fifth days. But fast on the fourth day and the Preparation day.
Be not as the hypocrites who fast on the second and fifth days of the week. But fast on the fourth day and the Preparation day. And pray as the Lord commanded in His Gospel.
Our Father who are in heaven…

CH7

But if you have neither running water nor other water baptize into other water and if you cannot in cold water then in warm. But if you have neither pour out water three times upon the head into the Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. But before the baptism let the baptizer and the baptized fast and any others who can. And you shall command the baptized to fast one or two days before.
And concerning baptism baptize thus. Having first said all these things baptize into the Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit in running water. But if you have no running water baptize into other water. And if you cannot in cold water then in warm. But if you have neither pour out water three times upon the head into the Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. But before the baptism let the baptizer and the baptized fast and any others who can. And you shall command the baptized to fast one or two days before.

CH6

For if you are able to bear the whole yoke of the Lord you will be perfect. But if you are not able then do what you can. And concerning food bear what you are able. But keep strictly away from meat sacrificed to idols for it is the worship of dead gods.
See that no one leads you astray from this way of the teaching for such a one teaches apart from YHWH. For if you are able to bear the whole yoke of the Lord you will be perfect. But if you are not able to do this then do what you can. And concerning food bear what you are able. But keep strictly away from meat sacrificed to idols for it is the worship of dead gods.

CH5

Therefore my children flee from all these things and from every likeness of them that you may not be partakers in them but may inherit the kingdom of YHWH which the Lord has promised to those who love Him.
For the way of death is this: murders adulteries lusts fornications thefts idolatries magic arts witchcrafts rapines false witnessings hypocrisies double-heartedness deceit pride depravity self-will covetousness foul speaking jealousy arrogance haughtiness. Persecutors of the good haters of truth lovers of a lie who do not know the reward of righteousness who do not cleave to what is good nor to righteous judgment who do not regard the widow and the orphan but turn aside from the way of the meek who do not regard the poor but oppress the afflicted who do not know their Creator who are murderers of children destroyers of the image of YHWH who turn away from the needy who oppress the afflicted who are advocates of the rich who are lawless judges of the poor who are utter sinners. Flee from these my children that you may not perish with them.
The way of death is this…
But the way of life is this…

CH4

My child, day and night remember the one who speaks the word of YHWH to you. Honor him as the Lord, for where the Lord’s nature is spoken of, there the Lord is. Seek daily the presence of the saints that you may find rest in their words. Do not cause division but bring peace to those who contend. Judge righteously. Do not show favoritism when reproving transgressions. Do not be double-minded. Do not be a respecter of persons in reproving transgressions. Do not be double-minded. Do not stretch out your hands to receive and draw them back when giving. Do not be covetous. Do not be a hypocrite. Do not be bitter in spirit. Do not be contentious. Do not be wrathful. Do not be a respecter of persons. Do not be double-minded. Do not take the Name of the Lord in vain. Do not be a murmurer. Do not be self-willed. Do not be evil-minded. Do not be haughty. Do not be proud. Do not be envious. Do not be a slanderer. Do not be a lover of evil. Do not be a hater of the good. Do not be one who turns away from the needy. Do not be one who turns away from the poor. Do not be one who turns away from the afflicted. Do not be one who turns away from the widow. Do not be one who turns away from the orphan. Do not be one who turns away from the stranger. Love your neighbor more than your own soul. Do not lift up your hand against your child. Do not abort a child. Do not kill a child that is born. Do not withhold your hand from your son or from your daughter but from their youth teach them the fear of YHWH. Do not be harsh with your servants whether male or female who hope in the same God, lest they cease to fear the God who is over both. For He comes not to call according to outward appearance but to those whom the Spirit has prepared. You shall share all things with your brother and shall not say that anything is your own. For if you are partakers in that which is immortal, how much more in things which are mortal? Do not be one who stretches out the hands to receive and draws them back when giving. Do not be covetous. Do not be a hypocrite. Do not be bitter in spirit. Do not be contentious. Do not be wrathful. Do not be a respecter of persons. Do not be double-minded.
My child, remember night and day the one who speaks the word of God to you…

CH3

Be meek for the meek shall inherit the earth. Be long-suffering and merciful and guileless and quiet and good and always trembling at the words which you have heard. You shall not exalt yourself nor give boldness to your soul. You shall not join yourself to the lofty but shall walk with the just and lowly. The events that happen to you receive as good knowing that without YHWH nothing comes to pass. My child be not a murmurer for murmuring leads to blasphemy. Be not self-willed nor evil-minded for all these things breed blasphemy. But be meek for the meek shall inherit the earth. Be long-suffering and merciful and guileless and quiet and good and always trembling at the words which you have heard. You shall not exalt yourself nor give boldness to your soul. You shall not join yourself to the lofty but shall walk with the just and lowly.
My child flee from every evil thing and from every likeness of it. Be not an angry man for anger leads to murder. Be not jealous nor quarrelsome nor of hot temper for out of all these murders are begotten. My child be not a lustful one for lust leads to fornication. Be not a filthy talker nor a lifter up of the eyes for out of all these adulteries are begotten. My child be not an observer of omens for it leads to idolatry. Be not an enchanter nor an astrologer nor a purifier nor be willing to look at these things for out of all these idolatry is begotten. My child be not a liar for lying leads to theft. Be not covetous nor a lover of money nor a vainglorious one for out of all these thefts are begotten. My child be not a murmurer for murmuring leads to blasphemy. Be not self-willed nor evil-minded for all these things breed blasphemy. But be meek for the meek shall inherit the earth. Be long-suffering and merciful and guileless and quiet and good and always trembling at the words which you have heard.

CH2

You shall not take the Name of the Lord in vain. You shall not bear false witness. You shall not speak evil. You shall not be double-minded nor double-tongued for a double tongue is a snare of death. Your speech shall not be false nor empty but fulfilled by deed. You shall not be covetous nor a plunderer nor a hypocrite nor evil-minded nor haughty. You shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor. You shall not hate any man but some you shall reprove and for some you shall pray and some you shall love more than your own soul.
You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not corrupt boys. You shall not commit fornication. You shall not steal. You shall not practice magic. You shall not use sorcery. You shall not procure abortion nor kill a child that is born. You shall not covet your neighbor’s goods. You shall not perjure yourself. You shall not bear false witness. You shall not speak evil. You shall not be double-minded nor double-tongued. You shall not be covetous nor a plunderer nor a hypocrite nor evil-minded nor haughty. You shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor. You shall not hate any man but some you shall reprove and for some you shall pray and some you shall love more than your own soul.
The second commandment of the teaching is this…
The first commandment is this: You shall love the Lord your YHWH who made you with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. The second commandment is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And all things whatsoever you would not have done to you neither do you to another.

CH1

This is the way of life.
My child, if you are able to bear the whole yoke of the Lord you will be perfect, but if you are not able, then do what you can. And concerning food, bear what you are able, but keep strictly away from meat sacrificed to idols, for it is the worship of dead gods.
You shall not take the Name of the Lord in vain. You shall not bear false witness. You shall not speak evil. You shall not be double-minded nor double-tongued, for a double tongue is a snare of death. Your speech shall not be false nor empty, but fulfilled by deed. You shall not be covetous nor a plunderer nor a hypocrite nor evil-minded nor haughty. You shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor. You shall not hate any man, but some you shall reprove, and for some you shall pray, and some you shall love more than your own soul.
You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not corrupt boys. You shall not commit fornication. You shall not steal. You shall not practice magic. You shall not use sorcery. You shall not procure abortion nor kill a child that is born. You shall not covet your neighbor’s goods.
The second commandment of the teaching is this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And all things whatsoever you would not have done to you, neither do you to another.
The first commandment is this: You shall love the Lord your YHWH who made you with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength.
There are two ways, one of life and one of death, and there is a great difference between the two ways.

CH0 Introduction

This is the teaching of the Two Ways: one of life and one of death, and there is a great difference between the two ways.
The way of death is evil and full of curses. It is the way of persecution, adultery, lust, idolatry, magic, murder, false witness, and all manner of wickedness.
The way of life is this: First, you shall love YHWH your God who made you. Second, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And whatever you do not wish to happen to you, do not do to another.
There are two ways, one of life and one of death, but a great difference between the two ways.
The teaching of the Lord through the twelve apostles to the nations.
