EPHESIANS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


CH6

Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from YHWH the Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed. Grace be with all who love our Lord Yeshua the Anointed with love incorruptible.
Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything. I have sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts.
Pray also for me that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel for which I am an ambassador in chains that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak.
To that end keep alert with all perseverance making supplication for all the saints.
In all circumstances take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit which is the word of YHWH praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication.
Stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness and as shoes for your feet having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.
Put on the whole armor of YHWH that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood but against the rulers against the authorities against the cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.
Children obey your parents in the Lord for this is right. Honor your father and mother which is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land. Fathers do not provoke your children to anger but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Bondservants obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling with a sincere heart as you would the Anointed not by the way of eye-service as people-pleasers but as bondservants of the Anointed doing the will of YHWH from the heart rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man knowing that whatever good anyone does this he will receive back from the Lord whether he is a bondservant or free. Masters do the same to them and stop your threatening knowing that He who is both their Master and yours is in heaven and that there is no partiality with Him.
Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might.

CH5

However let each one of you love his wife as himself and let the wife see that she respects her husband. This mystery is profound and I am saying that it refers to the Anointed and the church.
Husbands love your wives as the Anointed loved the church and gave Himself up for her that He might sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word so that He might present the church to Himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh but nourishes and cherishes it just as the Anointed does the church because we are members of His body.
Wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife even as the Anointed is the head of the church His body and is Himself its Savior.
Look carefully then how you walk not as unwise but as wise making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine for that is debauchery but be filled with the Spirit addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart giving thanks always and for everything to YHWH the Father in the name of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed submitting to one another out of reverence for the Anointed.
Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness but instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light it becomes visible for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says “Awake O sleeper and arise from the dead and the Anointed will shine on you.”
For at one time you were darkness but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true.
But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking which are out of place but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous (that is an idolater) has no inheritance in the kingdom of the Anointed and YHWH.
Therefore be imitators of YHWH as beloved children. And walk in love as the Anointed loved us and gave Himself up for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to YHWH.

CH4

And be kind to one another tenderhearted forgiving one another as YHWH in the Anointed forgave you.
Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths but only such as is good for building up as fits the occasion that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of YHWH by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice.
Now this I say and testify in the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding alienated from the life of YHWH because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learned the Anointed! — assuming that you have heard about Him and were taught in Him as the truth is in Yeshua. Put off your old self which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds and to put on the new self created after the likeness of YHWH in true righteousness and holiness.
There is one body and one Spirit — just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call — one Lord one faith one baptism one YHWH and Father of all who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of the Anointed’s gift.
I therefore a prisoner for the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called with all humility and gentleness with patience bearing with one another in love eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.

CH3

To Him be glory in the church and in the Anointed Yeshua throughout all generations forever and ever. Amen.
Now to Him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think according to the power at work within us to Him be glory…
For this reason I bow my knees before the Father from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named that according to the riches of His glory He may grant you to be strengthened with power through His Spirit in your inner being so that the Anointed may dwell in your hearts through faith — that you being rooted and grounded in love may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of the Anointed that surpasses knowledge that you may be filled with all the fullness of YHWH.
For this reason I Paul a prisoner of the Anointed Yeshua on behalf of you Gentiles — assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of YHWH’s grace that was given to me for you how the mystery was made known to me by revelation as I have written briefly. When you read this you can perceive my insight into the mystery of the Anointed which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs members of the same body and partakers of the promise in the Anointed Yeshua through the gospel. Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of YHWH’s grace which was given me by the working of His power. To me though I am the very least of all the saints this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of the Anointed and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in YHWH who created all things so that through the church the manifold wisdom of YHWH might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose that He has realized in the Anointed Yeshua our Lord in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in Him. So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you which is your glory.

CH2

In whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place for YHWH by the Spirit.
You are no longer strangers and aliens but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of YHWH built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets the Anointed Yeshua Himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord.
For through Him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.
He Himself is our peace who has made us both one and has broken down in His flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that He might create in Himself one new man in place of the two so making peace and might reconcile us both to YHWH in one body through the cross thereby killing the hostility.
But now in the Anointed Yeshua you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of the Anointed.
Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision which is made in the flesh by hands — remember that you were at that time separated from the Anointed alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise having no hope and without YHWH in the world.
And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked following the course of this world following the prince of the power of the air the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh carrying out the desires of the body and the mind and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. But YHWH being rich in mercy because of the great love with which He loved us even when we were dead in our trespasses made us alive together with the Anointed — by grace you have been saved — and raised us up with Him and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in the Anointed Yeshua so that in the coming ages He might show the immeasurable riches of His grace in kindness toward us in the Anointed Yeshua. For by grace you have been saved through faith and this is not your own doing it is the gift of YHWH not a result of works so that no one may boast. For we are His workmanship created in the Anointed Yeshua for good works which YHWH prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.

CH1

In Him you also when you heard the word of truth the gospel of your salvation and believed in Him were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of His glory.
In Him we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will so that we who were the first to hope in the Anointed might be to the praise of His glory.
In Him we have redemption through His blood the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of His grace which He lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight making known to us the mystery of His will according to His purpose which He set forth in the Anointed as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in Him things in heaven and things on earth.
Blessed be the YHWH and Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed who has blessed us in the Anointed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love He predestined us for adoption to Himself as sons through Yeshua the Anointed according to the purpose of His will to the praise of His glorious grace with which He has blessed us in the Beloved.
Paul an apostle of the Anointed Yeshua by the will of YHWH to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in the Anointed Yeshua. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
