GOSPEL OF THE NATIVITY OF MARY
YHWH (YHYYH) Codex


FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.


And Mary was in the temple of the Lord as a dove that is nurtured, receiving food from the hand of an angel, and she increased in strength day by day, and all the house of Israel loved her. And when she was twelve years old, the priests took counsel together, saying: Behold, Mary is twelve years old in the temple of the Lord. What then shall we do with her, lest she defile the sanctuary of the Lord? And they said to the high priest: You stand at the altar of the Lord; go in and pray concerning her, and whatever the Lord shall reveal to you, that let us do. And the high priest took the robe with the twelve bells and went into the Holy of Holies and prayed concerning her. And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, saying: Zacharias, Zacharias, go forth and assemble the widowers of the people, and let them bring their rods, and to whomsoever the Lord shall show a sign, to him shall she be given as wife. And the heralds went out through all the country of Judaea, and the trumpet of the Lord sounded, and all ran together. And Joseph threw down his axe and went to meet them. And when they were gathered together, they took their rods and went to the high priest. And he took the rods of all and went into the temple and prayed. And when he had given back the rods, there was no sign upon any of them. But when Joseph took his rod, a dove came forth from the top of it and flew upon Joseph’s head. And the high priest said to Joseph: You have been chosen by lot to take the virgin of the Lord and keep her for yourself. But Joseph refused, saying: I have children, and I am an old man, and she is a young girl. I fear lest I become a laughing-stock to the children of Israel. And the high priest said to Joseph: Fear YHWH your God, and remember what God did to Dathan, Abiram, and Korah, how the earth opened and they were swallowed up because of their gainsaying. And now fear, Joseph, lest the same things happen in your house. And Joseph was afraid, and took her to keep her.
And the child increased in strength day by day. And when she was six months old her mother stood her upon the ground to see if she could stand. And she walked seven steps and came to her mother’s bosom. And her mother caught her up, saying: As YHWH my God lives, you shall walk no more upon this ground until I bring you into the temple of the Lord. And she made a sanctuary in her bedchamber and suffered nothing common or unclean to pass through it. And she sent for the undefiled daughters of the Hebrews, and they played with her. And when the child was three years old, they brought her to the temple of the Lord. And Joachim said: Let us bring her up to the temple of the Lord, that we may fulfil the vow which we vowed. And Anna said: Let us wait until the third year. And the priest received her and kissed her and blessed her, saying: The Lord has magnified your name in all generations; in you in the last days shall the Lord manifest his redemption to the children of Israel. And he set her down upon the third step of the altar, and the Lord God poured grace upon her, and she danced with her feet. And her parents went down marvelling, and praising the Lord God because the child did not turn back to them.

And Anna brought forth a daughter and called her name Mary. And she gave suck to the child. And when the days of her purification were accomplished, she made herself clean according to the law and gave the breast to the child. And Joachim made a great feast and invited the priests, the scribes, the elders, and all the people of Israel. And Joachim brought the child to the priests, and they blessed her, saying: O God of our fathers, bless this child and give her a name that shall be renowned in all generations for ever. And all the people said: So be it, Amen. And they brought her to the high priest, and he blessed her, saying: O YHWH God of the heights, look upon this child and bless her with the utmost blessing. And Anna rejoiced and praised YHWH God because she had been heard in her reproach among the children of Israel. And Joachim rested the first day in his house.
There was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Joachim, of the tribe of Judah, of the lineage of David. And he had a wife whose name was Anna, of the tribe of Levi. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. And they had no child, because Anna was barren. And they were both exceeding sorrowful. And Joachim was greatly grieved, and went to the temple of the Lord, saying: I will not go down from this place until the Lord my God shall look upon me and give me fruit of my wife. And he fasted and prayed. And Anna also was in great sorrow, and went into her garden and wept, saying: Woe is me, to what have I been born, that all the daughters of Israel reproach me? And she lifted up her voice to heaven, saying: O YHWH God of Israel, if thou hast indeed looked upon me and blessed me, and given me a child, then I will offer it as a gift to thee all the days of its life.
