GOSPEL OF JOHN 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH21

This is disciple who is bearing witness about these things and who has written these things and we know that his testimony is true. Now there are also many other things that Yeshua did. Were every one of them to be written I suppose that world itself could not contain books that would be written.
Yeshua said to him “If it is my will that he remain until I come what is that to you? You follow me!” So this rumor spread that this disciple would not die. Yet Yeshua did not say to him that he would not die but “If it is my will that he remain until I come what is that to you?”
Peter turned and saw following them disciple whom Yeshua loved who had been reclining at table close to Him and had said “Lord who is it that is going to betray you?” When Peter saw him he said to Yeshua “Lord what about this man?”
After this Yeshua revealed Himself again to disciples by Sea of Tiberias and He revealed Himself in this way. Simon Peter Thomas called Twin Nathanael of Cana in Galilee sons of Zebedee and two others of His disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them “I am going fishing.” They said to Him “We will go with you.” They went out and got into boat but that night they caught nothing.
When they had finished breakfast Yeshua said to Simon Peter “Simon son of John do you love me more than these?” He said to Him “Yes Lord you know that I love you.” He said to him “Feed my lambs.” He said to him second time “Simon son of John do you love me?” He said to Him “Yes Lord you know that I love you.” He said to him “Tend my sheep.” He said to him third time “Simon son of John do you love me?” Peter was grieved because He said to him third time “Do you love me?” And he said to Him “Lord you know everything you know that I love you.” Yeshua said to him “Feed my sheep.”
Yeshua said to them “Bring some of fish that you have just caught.” So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled net ashore full of large fish 153 of them. And although there were so many net was not torn. Yeshua said to them “Come and have breakfast.” Now none of disciples dared ask Him “Who are you?” They knew it was Lord. Yeshua came and took bread and gave it to them and so with fish. This was now third time that Yeshua was revealed to disciples after He was raised from dead.
Just as day was breaking Yeshua stood on shore. Yet disciples did not know that it was Yeshua. Yeshua said to them “Children do you have any fish?” They answered Him “No.” He said to them “Cast net on right side of boat and you will find some.” So they cast it and now they were not able to haul it in because of quantity of fish.
When they got out on land they saw charcoal fire there with fish laid on it and bread. Yeshua said to them “Bring some of fish that you have just caught.”
This was now third time that Yeshua was revealed to disciples after He was raised from dead.

CH20

Now Yeshua did many other signs in presence of disciples which are not written in this book but these are written so that you may believe that Yeshua is the Anointed the Son of YHWH and that believing you may have life in His name.
Yeshua said to him “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”
Thomas answered Him “My Lord and my YHWH!”
Then He said to Thomas “Put your finger here and see my hands and put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve but believe.”
Eight days later His disciples were inside again and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked Yeshua came and stood among them and said “Peace be with you.” Then He said to Thomas “Put your finger here and see my hands…”
The other disciples told him “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them “Unless I see in His hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails and place my hand into His side I will never believe.”
Now Thomas one of the twelve called the Twin was not with them when Yeshua came.
Yeshua said to them again “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me even so I am sending you.” And when He had said this He breathed on them and said to them “Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive sins of any they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any it is withheld.”
On the evening of that day the first day of the week the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews Yeshua came and stood among them and said to them “Peace be with you.” When He had said this He showed them His hands and His side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Yeshua had lain one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her “Woman why are you weeping?” She said to them “They have taken away my Lord and I do not know where they have laid Him.” Having said this she turned around and saw Yeshua standing but she did not know that it was Yeshua. Yeshua said to her “Woman why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?” Supposing Him to be the gardener she said to Him “Sir if you have carried Him away tell me where you have laid Him and I will take Him away.” Yeshua said to her “Mary.” She turned and said to Him in Aramaic “Rabboni!” which means Teacher. Yeshua said to her “Do not cling to me for I have not yet ascended to the Father but go to my brothers and say to them I am ascending to my Father and your Father to my YHWH and your YHWH.” Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples “I have seen the Lord” and that He had said these things to her.
Yeshua said to her “Mary.”
But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb.
They have taken the Lord out of the tomb and we do not know where they have laid Him.
So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple the one whom Yeshua loved and said to them “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb and we do not know where they have laid Him.”
Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.

CH19

At the place where Yeshua was crucified there was a garden and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. So because of the Jewish day of Preparation and since the tomb was close at hand they laid Yeshua there.
After these things Joseph of Arimathea who was a disciple of Yeshua but secretly for fear of the Jews asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Yeshua and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away His body. Nicodemus also who earlier had come to Him by night came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes about seventy-five pounds. So they took the body of Yeshua and bound it in linen cloths with the spices as is the burial custom of the Jews.
When Yeshua had received the sour wine He said “It is finished” and He bowed His head and gave up His spirit.
After this Yeshua knowing that all was now finished said to fulfill the Scripture “I thirst.” A jar full of sour wine stood there so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to His mouth.
But when they came to Yeshua and saw that He was already dead they did not break His legs. But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness — his testimony is true and he knows that he is telling the truth — that you also may believe. For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled “Not one of His bones will be broken.” And again another Scripture says “They will look on Him whom they have pierced.”
So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified with Him.
When the soldiers had crucified Yeshua they took His garments and divided them into four parts one part for each soldier and also His tunic. But the tunic was seamless woven from top to bottom so they said to one another “Let us not tear it but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be.” This was to fulfill the Scripture which says “They divided my garments among them and for my clothing they cast lots.”
There they crucified Him and with Him two others one on either side and Yeshua between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read “Yeshua of Nazareth the King of the Jews.” Many of the Jews read this inscription for the place where Yeshua was crucified was near the city and it was written in Aramaic in Latin and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate “Do not write ‘The King of the Jews’ but rather ‘This man said I am King of the Jews.’” Pilate answered “What I have written I have written.”
And He bearing His own cross went out to the place called The Place of a Skull which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. There they crucified Him.
Then Pilate took Yeshua and flogged Him. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on His head and put a purple robe on Him. They came up to Him saying “Hail King of the Jews!” and struck Him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them “See I am bringing Him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in Him.” So Yeshua came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them “Behold the man!” When the chief priests and the officers saw Him they cried out “Crucify Him crucify Him!” Pilate said to them “Take Him yourselves and crucify Him for I find no guilt in Him.” The Jews answered him “We have a law and according to that law He ought to die because He has made Himself the Son of YHWH.” When Pilate heard this statement he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Yeshua “Where are you from?” But Yeshua gave him no answer. So Pilate said to Him “You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you?” Yeshua answered him “You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.”

CH18

Then Pilate said to Him “What is truth?” After he had said this he went back outside to the Jews and told them “I find no guilt in Him. But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” They cried out again “Not this man but Barabbas!” Now Barabbas was a robber.
Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Yeshua and said to Him “Are you the King of the Jews?” Yeshua answered “Do you say this of your own accord or did others say it to you about me?” Pilate answered “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done?” Yeshua answered “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.” Then Pilate said to Him “So you are a king?” Yeshua answered “You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world — to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.”
So Pilate took Yeshua and flogged Him.
Then they led Yeshua from Caiaphas to the governor’s headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor’s headquarters so that they would not be defiled but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said “What accusation do you bring against this man?” They answered him “If this man were not doing evil we would not have delivered Him over to you.” Pilate said to them “Take Him yourselves and judge Him by your own law.” The Jews said to him “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death.” This was to fulfill the word that Yeshua had spoken to show by what kind of death He was going to die.
Then Annas sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
The high priest questioned Yeshua about His disciples and His teaching. Yeshua answered him “I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple where all Jews come together. I said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. They know what I said.” When He had said these things one of the officers standing by struck Yeshua with his hand saying “Is that how you answer the high priest?” Yeshua answered him “If what I said is wrong bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right why do you strike me?”
Simon Peter followed Yeshua and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest he entered with Yeshua into the courtyard of the high priest but Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter “You also are not one of this man’s disciples are you?” He said “I am not.” Now the servants and the officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself.
So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Yeshua and bound Him. First they led Him to Annas for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas who was high priest that year.
When Yeshua had spoken these words He went out with His disciples across the brook Kidron where there was a garden which He and His disciples entered. Now Judas who betrayed Him also knew the place for Yeshua often met there with His disciples. So Judas having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Yeshua knowing all that would happen to Him came forward and said to them “Whom do you seek?” They answered Him “Yeshua of Nazareth.” Yeshua said to them “I am He.” Judas who betrayed Him was standing with them. When Yeshua said to them “I am He” they drew back and fell to the ground. So He asked them again “Whom do you seek?” And they said “Yeshua of Nazareth.” Yeshua answered “I told you that I am He. So if you seek me let these men go.” This was to fulfill the word that He had spoken “Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one.” Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it and struck the high priest’s servant and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus. So Yeshua said to Peter “Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?”

CH17

Father I desire that they also whom You have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that You have given me because You loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father even though the world does not know You I know You and these know that You have sent me. I made known to them Your name and I will continue to make it known that the love with which You have loved me may be in them and I in them.
I do not ask for these only but also for those who will believe in me through their word that they may all be one just as You Father are in me and I in You that they also may be in us so that the world may believe that You have sent me. The glory that You have given me I have given to them that they may be one even as we are one I in them and You in me that they may become perfectly one so that the world may know that You sent me and loved them even as You loved me.
And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth.
I have given them Your word and the world has hated them because they are not of the world just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that You take them out of the world but that You keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world just as I am not of the world.
I am no longer in the world but they are in the world and I am coming to You. Holy Father keep them in Your name which You have given me that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them I kept them in Your name which You have given me. I have guarded them and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
When Yeshua had spoken these words He lifted up His eyes to heaven and said “Father the hour has come. Glorify Your Son that the Son may glorify You since You have given Him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom You have given Him. And this is eternal life that they know You the only true YHWH and Yeshua the Anointed whom You have sent. I glorified You on earth having accomplished the work that You gave me to do. And now Father glorify me in Your own presence with the glory that I had with You before the world existed.”

CH16

I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart — I have overcome the world.
In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly truly I say to you whatever you ask of the Father in my name He will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive that your joy may be full.
I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf for the Father Himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from YHWH.
A little while and you will see me no longer and again a little while and you will see me. So some of His disciples said to one another “What is this that He says to us ‘A little while and you will not see me and again a little while and you will see me’ and ‘because I am going to the Father’?” So they were saying “What does He mean by ‘a little while’? We do not know what He is talking about.”
But sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless I tell you the truth — it is to your advantage that I go away for if I do not go away the Helper will not come to you. But if I go I will send Him to you. And when He comes He will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness because I go to the Father and you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment because the ruler of this world is judged.
I still have many things to say to you but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes He will guide you into all the truth for He will not speak on His own authority but whatever He hears He will speak and He will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me for He will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that He will take what is mine and declare it to you.
They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to YHWH. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. But I have said these things to you that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you.
A woman when she is in labor has sorrow because her hour has come. But when she has delivered the baby she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. So also you have sorrow now but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice and no one will take your joy from you.
Truly truly I say to you you will weep and lament but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful but your sorrow will turn into joy.
They will make you outcasts from the synagogues but an hour is coming when everyone who kills you will think he is offering service to YHWH.
I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away.

CH15

But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away, and I will come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.
If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his master.’ If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know Him who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my Father. But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled: ‘They hated me without a cause.’
These things I have spoken to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, an hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to YHWH. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me. But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you.
I have said these things to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, He may give it to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another.
If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide in His love.
I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers.
Every branch in me that does not bear fruit He takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit He prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me.

CH14

Rise, let us go from here.
I will not speak with you much longer, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father.
Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will manifest myself to him.
Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, “Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?” Yeshua answered him, “If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father’s who sent me.”
These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.
You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away, and I will come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do.
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves.
Yeshua said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know Him and have seen Him.”
Thomas said to Him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?”
“Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in YHWH; believe also in me. In my Father’s house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.”

CH13

Truly truly I say to you the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times.
Simon Peter said to Him “Lord where are you going?” Yeshua answered “Where I am going you cannot follow me now but you will follow afterward.” Peter said to Him “Lord why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.” Yeshua answered “Will you lay down your life for me?”
A new commandment I give to you that you love one another just as I have loved you you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another.
When he had gone out Yeshua said “Now is the Son of Man glorified and YHWH is glorified in Him. If YHWH is glorified in Him YHWH will also glorify Him in Himself and glorify Him at once. Little children yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me and just as I said to the Jews so now I also say to you ‘Where I am going you cannot come.’”
Yeshua said to him “The one to whom I will give this morsel of bread is the one.” When He had dipped the morsel He gave it to Judas the son of Simon Iscariot. After the morsel Satan entered into him. Yeshua said to him “What you are going to do do quickly.” Now no one at the table knew why He said this to him. Some thought that because Judas had the moneybag Yeshua was telling him “Buy what we need for the feast” or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel he immediately went out and it was night.
Yeshua answered “It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it.” So when He had dipped the morsel He gave it to Judas the son of Simon Iscariot.
Yeshua was troubled in His spirit and testified “Truly truly I say to you one of you will betray me.” The disciples looked at one another uncertain of whom He spoke. One of His disciples whom Yeshua loved was reclining at table close to Yeshua so Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Yeshua of whom He was speaking. So that disciple leaning back against Yeshua said to Him “Lord who is it?”
I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen but the Scripture will be fulfilled ‘He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.’ I am telling you this now before it takes place that when it does take place you may believe that I am He. Truly truly I say to you whoever receives the one I send receives me and whoever receives me receives Him who sent me.
When Yeshua had washed their feet and put on His outer garments and resumed His place He said to them “Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me Teacher and Lord and you are right for so I am. If I then your Lord and Teacher have washed your feet you also ought to wash one another’s feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Truly truly I say to you a servant is not greater than his master nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.”
Then He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around Him. He came to Simon Peter who said to Him “Lord do you wash my feet?” Yeshua answered him “What I am doing you do not understand now but afterward you will understand.” Peter said to Him “You shall never wash my feet.” Yeshua answered him “If I do not wash you you have no share with me.” Simon Peter said to Him “Lord not my feet only but also my hands and my head!” Yeshua said to him “The one who has bathed does not need to wash except for his feet but is completely clean. And you are clean but not every one of you.” For He knew who was to betray Him. That is why He said “Not all of you are clean.”
Now before the Feast of Passover when Yeshua knew that His hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father having loved His own who were in the world He loved them to the end.

CH12

Isaiah said these things because he saw His glory and spoke of Him. Nevertheless many even of the authorities believed in Him but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from YHWH.
Though He had done so many signs before them they still did not believe in Him so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: “Lord who has believed what he heard from us and to whom has the arm of YHWH been revealed?” Therefore they could not believe. For Isaiah again said “He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn and I would heal them.”
Yeshua cried out and said “Whoever believes in me believes not in me but in Him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees Him who sent me. I have come into the world as light so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them I do not judge him for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority but the Father who sent me has Himself given me a commandment — what to say and what to speak. And I know that His commandment is eternal life. What I say therefore I say as the Father has told me.”
Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I when I am lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death He was going to die. So the crowd answered Him “We have heard from the Law that the Anointed remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?” So Yeshua said to them “The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light lest darkness overtake you. Whoever walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light believe in the light that you may become sons of light.”
The crowd answered Him “We have heard from the Law that the Anointed remains forever…”
The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly truly I say to you unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies it remains alone. But if it dies it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me he must follow me and where I am there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me the Father will honor him.
Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip who was from Bethsaida in Galilee and asked him “Sir we wish to see Yeshua.” Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Yeshua.
The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Yeshua was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet Him crying out “Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of YHWH even the King of Israel!” And Yeshua found a young donkey and sat on it just as it is written “Fear not daughter of Zion. Behold your king is coming sitting on a donkey’s colt.” His disciples did not understand these things at first but when Yeshua was glorified then they remembered that these things had been written about Him and had been done to Him. The crowd that had been with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason they were with Him was that they had heard He had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another “You see that you are gaining nothing. Look the world has gone after Him.”
Six days before the Passover Yeshua came to Bethany where Lazarus was whom Yeshua had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for Him there. Martha served and Lazarus was one of those reclining with Him at table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Yeshua and wiped His feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot one of His disciples (he who was about to betray Him) said “Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?” He said this not because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief and having charge of the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it. Yeshua said “Leave her alone so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you but you do not always have me.”

CH11

So from that day on they made plans to put Him to death. Yeshua therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim and there He stayed with the disciples. Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Yeshua and saying to one another as they stood in the temple “What do you think? That He will not come to the feast at all?” Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where He was he should let them know so that they might arrest Him.
Many of the Jews therefore who had come with Mary and had seen what He did believed in Him but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Yeshua had done.
Yeshua said to them “Take away the stone.” Martha the sister of the dead man said to Him “Lord by this time there will be an odor for he has been dead four days.” Yeshua said to her “Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of YHWH?” So they took away the stone. And Yeshua lifted up His eyes and said “Father I thank You that You have heard me. I knew that You always hear me but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that You sent me.” When He had said these things He cried out with a loud voice “Lazarus come out!” The man who had died came out his hands and feet bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. Yeshua said to them “Unbind him and let him go.”
Yeshua said “Take away the stone.”
When Yeshua saw her weeping and the Jews who had come with her also weeping He was deeply moved in His spirit and greatly troubled. And He said “Where have you laid him?” They said to Him “Lord come and see.” Yeshua wept. So the Jews said “See how He loved him!” But some of them said “Could not He who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying?”
When Mary came to where Yeshua was and saw Him she fell at His feet saying to Him “Lord if You had been here my brother would not have died.”
Now when Martha heard that Yeshua was coming she went to meet Him but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Yeshua “Lord if You had been here my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever You ask from YHWH YHWH will give You.” Yeshua said to her “Your brother will rise again.” Martha said to Him “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day.” Yeshua said to her “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me though he die yet shall he live and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?” She said to Him “Yes Lord I believe that You are the Anointed the Son of YHWH who is coming into the world.”
Now Jesus had not yet entered the village but was still in the place where Martha had met Him.
Now when Yeshua came He found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
Now a certain man was ill Lazarus of Bethany the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to Him saying “Lord he whom You love is ill.” But when Yeshua heard it He said “This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of YHWH so that the Son of YHWH may be glorified through it.”

CH10

And many believed in Him there. And He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there He remained. And many came to Him and they said “John performed no sign but everything that John said about this man was true.”
The Jews gathered around Him and said to Him “How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Anointed tell us plainly.” Yeshua answered them “I told you and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name bear witness about me but you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life and they will never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand. I and the Father are one.”
The Jews picked up stones again to stone Him. Yeshua answered them “I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me?” The Jews answered Him “It is not for a good work that we are going to stone You but for blasphemy because You being a man make Yourself YHWH.” Yeshua answered them “Is it not written in your Law ‘I said you are gods’? If He called them gods to whom the word of YHWH came — and Scripture cannot be broken — do you say of Him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world ‘You are blaspheming’ because I said ‘I am the Son of YHWH’? If I am not doing the works of my Father then do not believe me. But if I do them even though you do not believe me believe the works that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father.” Again they sought to arrest Him but He escaped from their hands.
Yeshua said “I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd who does not own the sheep sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me just as the Father knows me and I know the Father and I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.”
So the Jews were divided because of these words. Many of them said “He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to Him?” Others said “These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?”
Yeshua said to them “Truly truly I say to you I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.”
Truly truly I say to you he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own he goes before them and the sheep follow him for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow but they will flee from him for they do not know the voice of strangers.

CH9

Yeshua said “For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see and those who see may become blind.” Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things and said to Him “Are we also blind?” Yeshua said to them “If you were blind you would have no guilt but now that you say ‘We see’ your guilt remains.”
They answered him “You were born in utter sin and would you teach us?” And they cast him out. Yeshua heard that they had cast him out and having found him He said “Do you believe in the Son of Man?” He answered “And who is He sir that I may believe in Him?” Yeshua said to him “You have seen Him and it is He who is speaking to you.” He said “Lord I believe” and he worshiped Him.
The man answered “Why this is an amazing thing! You do not know where He comes from and yet He opened my eyes. We know that YHWH does not listen to sinners but if anyone is a worshiper of YHWH and does His will YHWH listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from YHWH He could do nothing.”
So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him “Give glory to YHWH. We know that this man is a sinner.” He answered “Whether He is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind now I see.” They said to him “What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?” He answered them “I have told you already and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?” And they reviled him saying “You are His disciple but we are disciples of Moses. We know that YHWH has spoken to Moses but as for this man we do not know where He comes from.”
So the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them “Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?” His parents answered “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. But how he now sees we do not know nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him he is of age. He will speak for himself.” His parents said these things because they feared the Jews for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Yeshua to be the Anointed he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said “He is of age ask him.”
The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar said “Is this not the man who used to sit and beg?” Some said “It is he.” Others said “No but he is like him.” He kept saying “I am the man.” So they said to him “Then how were your eyes opened?” He answered “The man called Yeshua made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me ‘Go to Siloam and wash.’ So I went and washed and received my sight.” They said to him “Where is He?” He said “I do not know.”
As He passed by He saw a man blind from birth. And His disciples asked Him “Rabbi who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind?” Yeshua answered “It was not that this man sinned or his parents but that the works of YHWH might be displayed in him. We must work the works of Him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world I am the light of the world.” Having said these things He spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then He anointed the man’s eyes with the mud and said to him “Go wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means Sent). So he went and washed and came back seeing.

CH8

Yeshua said to them “Truly truly I say to you before Abraham was I am.” So they picked up stones to throw at Him but Yeshua hid Himself and went out of the temple.
Yeshua said to them “If YHWH were your Father you would love me for I came from YHWH and I am here. I came not of my own accord but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil and your will is to do your father’s desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies he speaks out of his own character for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth why do you not believe me? Whoever is of YHWH hears the words of YHWH. The reason you do not hear them is that you are not of YHWH.”
Yeshua said to them “If you were Abraham’s children you would be doing the works Abraham did but now you seek to kill me a man who has told you the truth that I heard from YHWH. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works your father did.” They said to Him “We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father even YHWH.” Yeshua said to them “If YHWH were your Father you would love me…”
They answered Him “Abraham is our father.” Yeshua said to them “If you were Abraham’s children you would be doing the works Abraham did.”
Yeshua answered “Even if I do bear witness about myself my testimony is true for I know where I came from and where I am going but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. Yet even if I do judge my judgment is true for it is not I alone who judge but I and the Father who sent me. In your Law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.” They said to Him therefore “Where is your Father?” Yeshua answered “You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me you would know my Father also.” These words He spoke in the treasury as He taught in the temple but no one arrested Him because His hour had not yet come.
So the Pharisees said to Him “You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true.”
Again Yeshua spoke to them saying “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness but will have the light of life.”
And they were saying to her “Teacher this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?” This they said to test Him that they might have some charge to bring against Him. Yeshua bent down and wrote with His finger on the ground. And as they continued to ask Him He stood up and said to them “Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.” And once more He bent down and wrote on the ground. But when they heard it they went away one by one beginning with the older ones and Yeshua was left alone with the woman standing before Him. Yeshua stood up and said to her “Woman where are they? Has no one condemned you?” She said “No one Lord.” And Yeshua said “Neither do I condemn you. Go and from now on sin no more.”
The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery and placing her in the midst they said to Yeshua…
Early in the morning He came again to the temple. All the people came to Him and He sat down and taught them.

CH7

Then each went to his own house. Nicodemus, one of them (he who had gone to Yeshua before) said to them “Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does?” They replied “Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee.” The Pharisees answered them “Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in Him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed.” The officers answered “No one ever spoke like this man!” The officers returned to the chief priests and Pharisees who said to them “Why did you not bring Him?”
Yet many of the people believed in Him. They said “When the Anointed appears will He do more signs than this man has done?” The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about Him and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest Him. Yeshua then said “I will be with you a little longer and then I am going to Him who sent me. You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come.” The Jews said to one another “Where does this man intend to go that we will not find Him? Does He intend to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? What does He mean by saying ‘You will seek me and you will not find me’ and ‘Where I am you cannot come’?”
On the last day the great day of the feast Yeshua stood up and cried out “If anyone thirsts let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me as the Scripture has said ‘Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.’” Now this He said about the Spirit whom those who believed in Him were to receive for as yet the Spirit had not been given because Yeshua was not yet glorified. When they heard these words some of the people said “This really is the Prophet.” Others said “This is the Anointed.” But some said “Is the Anointed to come from Galilee? Has not the Scripture said that the Anointed comes from the offspring of David and from Bethlehem the village where David was?” So there was a division among the people over Him. Some of them wanted to arrest Him but no one laid hands on Him.
About the middle of the feast Yeshua went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marveled saying “How is it that this man has learning when He has never studied?” So Yeshua answered them “My teaching is not mine but His who sent me. If anyone’s will is to do YHWH’s will he will know whether the teaching is from YHWH or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory but the one who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him is true and in Him there is no falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me?” The crowd answered “You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill you?” Yeshua answered them “I did one work and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses but from the fathers) and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision so that the law of Moses may not be broken are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man’s whole body well? Do not judge by appearances but judge with right judgment.”
Yeshua went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marveled saying “How is it that this man has learning when He has never studied?”
After this Yeshua went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill Him. Now the Jews’ Feast of Booths was at hand. So His brothers said to Him “Leave here and go to Judea that Your disciples also may see the works You are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If You do these things show Yourself to the world.” For not even His brothers believed in Him. Yeshua said to them “My time has not yet come but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast for my time has not yet fully come.” After saying this He remained in Galilee. But after His brothers had gone up to the feast then He also went up not publicly but in private.

CH6

After this many of His disciples turned back and no longer walked with Him. So Yeshua said to the twelve “Do you want to go away as well?” Simon Peter answered Him “Lord to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life and we have believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of YHWH.”
It is the Spirit who gives life the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Yeshua knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe and who it was who would betray Him. And He said “This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.”
The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. As the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father so whoever feeds on me he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Yeshua said these things in the synagogue as He taught at Capernaum.
Truly truly I say to you unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.
Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the Prophets ‘And they will all be taught by YHWH.’ Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me — not that anyone has seen the Father except He who is from YHWH He has seen the Father. Truly truly I say to you whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven so that one may eat of it and not die.
Truly truly I say to you it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of YHWH is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.
Yeshua said to them “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe.”
When the people saw the sign that He had done they said “This is indeed the Prophet who is to come into the world!” Perceiving then that they were about to come and take Him by force to make Him king Yeshua withdrew again to the mountain by Himself.
When the people saw the sign that He had done they said “This is indeed the Prophet who is to come into the world!”
Yeshua then took the loaves and when He had given thanks He distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill He told His disciples “Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost.” So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten.
Yeshua said “Have the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down about five thousand in number.
Yeshua said to Philip “Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat?” He said this to test him for He Himself knew what He would do. Philip answered Him “Two hundred denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little.” One of His disciples Andrew Simon Peter’s brother said to Him “There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they for so many?”
Now the Passover the feast of the Jews was at hand. Lifting up His eyes then and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward Him Yeshua said to Philip…

CH5

If I bear witness about myself my testimony is not true. There is another who bears witness about me and I know that the testimony that He bears about me is true. You sent to John and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony that I receive is from man but I say these things so that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish the very works that I am doing bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. And the Father who sent me has Himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard His form you have never seen and you do not have His word abiding in you for you do not believe the one whom He has sent. You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life and it is they that bear witness about me yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from people but I know that you do not have the love of YHWH within you. I have come in my Father’s name and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only YHWH? Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you Moses on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses you would believe me for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings how will you believe my words?
Truly truly I say to you an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of YHWH and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in Himself so He has granted the Son also to have life in Himself. And He has given Him authority to execute judgment because He is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear His voice and come out those who have done good to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.
The Father judges no one but has given all judgment to the Son that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him. Truly truly I say to you whoever hears my word and believes Him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment but has passed from death to life.
Yeshua said to him “Get up take up your bed and walk.” And at once the man was healed and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed “It is the Sabbath and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed.” But he answered them “The man who healed me that man said to me ‘Take up your bed and walk.’” They asked him “Who is the man who said to you ‘Take up your bed and walk’?” Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was for Yeshua had withdrawn as there was a crowd in the place. Afterward Yeshua found him in the temple and said to him “See you are well. Sin no more that nothing worse may happen to you.” The man went away and told the Jews that it was Yeshua who had healed him. And this was why the Jews were persecuting Yeshua because He was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Yeshua answered them “My Father is working until now and I am working.” This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him because not only was He breaking the Sabbath but He was even calling YHWH His own Father making Himself equal with YHWH.
Now there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool called in Aramaic Bethesda which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids blind lame and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Yeshua saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time He said to him “Do you want to be healed?” The sick man answered Him “Sir I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up and while I am going another steps down before me.”
After this there was a feast of the Jews and Yeshua went up to Jerusalem.

CH4

So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Yeshua had said to him “Your son lives.” And he himself believed and all his household. This was now the second sign that Yeshua did when He had come from Judea to Galilee.
Yeshua said to him “Go your son lives.” The man believed the word that Yeshua spoke to him and went on his way.
The official said to Him “Sir come down before my child dies.” Yeshua said to him “Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.” The official said to Him “Sir come down before my child dies.”
After the two days He departed for Galilee. For Yeshua Himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when He came to Galilee the Galileans welcomed Him having seen all that He had done in Jerusalem at the feast for they too had gone to the feast.
Many Samaritans from that town believed in Him because of the woman’s testimony “He told me all that I ever did.” So when the Samaritans came to Him they asked Him to stay with them and He stayed there two days. And many more believed because of His word. They said to the woman “It is no longer because of what you said that we believe for we have heard for ourselves and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.”
The woman said to Him “I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Anointed). When He comes He will tell us all things.” Yeshua said to her “I who speak to you am He.”
Yeshua said to her “Woman believe me an hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth for the Father is seeking such people to worship Him. YHWH is spirit and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.”
The woman said to Him “Sir I perceive that You are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship.”
Yeshua said to her “Give me a drink.” For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to Him “How is it that You a Jew ask for a drink from me a woman of Samaria?” For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Yeshua answered her “If you knew the gift of YHWH and who it is that is saying to you ‘Give me a drink’ you would have asked Him and He would have given you living water.” The woman said to Him “Sir You have nothing to draw water with and the well is deep. Where do You get that living water? Are You greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself as did his sons and his livestock.” Yeshua said to her “Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.”
He had to pass through Samaria. So He came to a town of Samaria called Sychar near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob’s well was there so Yeshua wearied as He was from His journey was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour.
Now when Yeshua learned that the Pharisees had heard that Yeshua was making and baptizing more disciples than John (although Yeshua Himself did not baptize but His disciples did) He left Judea and departed again for Galilee.

CH3

He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what He has seen and heard yet no one receives His testimony. Whoever receives His testimony has set his seal to this that YHWH is true. For He whom YHWH has sent utters the words of YHWH for He gives the Spirit without measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life but the wrath of YHWH remains on him.
After this Yeshua and His disciples went into the land of Judea and there He remained with them and was baptizing. John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim because water was plentiful there and people were coming and being baptized for John had not yet been put in prison.
He must increase but I must decrease.
You yourselves bear me witness that I said ‘I am not the Anointed but I have been sent before Him.’ The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegroom’s voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete.
A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven.
Now a discussion arose between some of John’s disciples and a Jew over purification. And they came to John and said to him “Rabbi He who was with you across the Jordan to whom you bore witness — look He is baptizing and all are going to Him.”
Yeshua answered him “Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things? Truly truly I say to you we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen but you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except He who descended from heaven the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in Him may have eternal life. For YHWH so loved the world that He gave His only Son that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life. For YHWH did not send His Son into the world to condemn the world but in order that the world might be saved through Him. Whoever believes in Him is not condemned but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of YHWH. And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in YHWH.”
Yeshua answered him “Truly truly I say to you unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of YHWH.” Nicodemus said to Him “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?” Yeshua answered “Truly truly I say to you unless one is born of water and the Spirit he cannot enter the kingdom of YHWH. That which is born of the flesh is flesh and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you ‘You must be born again.’ The wind blows where it wishes and you hear its sound but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.”
Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Yeshua by night and said to Him “Rabbi we know that You are a teacher come from YHWH for no one can do these signs that You do unless YHWH is with him.”

CH2

But Yeshua on His part did not entrust Himself to them because He knew all people and needed no one to bear witness about man for He Himself knew what was in man. Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast many believed in His name when they saw the signs that He was doing.
Yeshua answered them “Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up.” The Jews then said “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple and will You raise it up in three days?” But He was speaking about the temple of His body. When therefore He was raised from the dead His disciples remembered that He had said this and they believed the Scripture and the word that Yeshua had spoken.
So the Jews said to Him “What sign do You show us for doing these things?” Yeshua answered them…
And His disciples remembered that it was written “Zeal for Your house will consume me.”
And He told those who sold the pigeons “Take these things away. Do not make my Father’s house a house of trade.” His disciples remembered that it was written “Zeal for Your house will consume me.”
And making a whip of cords He drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and oxen and He poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
In the temple He found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and the money-changers sitting there. And making a whip of cords He drove them all out…
The Passover of the Jews was at hand and Yeshua went up to Jerusalem.
This the first of His signs Yeshua did at Cana in Galilee and manifested His glory. And His disciples believed in Him.
Yeshua said to them “Fill the jars with water.” And they filled them up to the brim. And He said to them “Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast.” So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine and did not know where it came from (though the servants who had drawn the water knew) the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him “Everyone serves the good wine first and when people have drunk freely then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now.”
Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification each holding twenty or thirty gallons. Yeshua said to the servants “Fill the jars with water.”
On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee and the mother of Yeshua was there. Yeshua also was invited to the wedding with His disciples. When the wine ran out the mother of Yeshua said to Him “They have no wine.” And Yeshua said to her “Woman what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come.” His mother said to the servants “Do whatever He tells you.”
After this He went down to Capernaum with His mother and His brothers and His disciples and they stayed there a few days.

CH1

And He said to him “Truly truly I say to you you will see heaven opened and the angels of YHWH ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”
Yeshua saw Nathanael coming toward Him and said of him “Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there is no deceit!” Nathanael said to Him “How do You know me?” Yeshua answered him “Before Philip called you when you were under the fig tree I saw you.” Nathanael answered Him “Rabbi You are the Son of YHWH! You are the King of Israel!”
Philip found Nathanael and said to him “We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and also the prophets wrote — Yeshua of Nazareth the son of Joseph.” Nathanael said to him “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him “Come and see.”
The next day Yeshua decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him “Follow me.” Now Philip was from Bethsaida the city of Andrew and Peter.
Again the next day John was standing with two of his disciples and he looked at Yeshua as He walked by and said “Behold the Lamb of YHWH!” The two disciples heard him say this and they followed Yeshua. Yeshua turned and saw them following and said to them “What are you seeking?” And they said to Him “Rabbi (which means Teacher) where are You staying?” He said to them “Come and you will see.” So they came and saw where He was staying and they stayed with Him that day for it was about the tenth hour. One of the two who heard John speak and followed Yeshua was Andrew Simon Peter’s brother. He first found his own brother Simon and said to him “We have found the Messiah” (which means Anointed). He brought him to Yeshua. Yeshua looked at him and said “You are Simon the son of John. You shall be called Cephas” (which means Peter).
John answered them “I baptize with water but among you stands One you do not know even He who comes after me the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.” These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan where John was baptizing.
And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him “Who are you?” He confessed and did not deny but confessed “I am not the Anointed.” And they asked him “What then? Are you Elijah?” He said “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” And he answered “No.” So they said to him “Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?” He said “I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness ‘Make straight the way of YHWH’ as the prophet Isaiah said.”
He came to His own and His own people did not receive Him. But to all who did receive Him who believed in His name He gave the right to become children of YHWH who were born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man but of YHWH.
And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us and we have seen His glory glory as of the only Son from the Father full of grace and truth. John bore witness about Him and cried out “This was He of whom I said ‘He who comes after me ranks before me because He was before me.’” For from His fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses grace and truth came through Yeshua the Anointed. No one has ever seen YHWH the only Son who is at the Father’s side He has made Him known.
He was in the world and the world was made through Him yet the world did not know Him.
That was the true light which gives light to everyone coming into the world.
The true light which enlightens everyone was coming into the world.
There was a man sent from YHWH whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light but came to bear witness about the light.
In Him was life and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it.
All things were made through Him and without Him was not any thing made that was made.
In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with YHWH and the Word was YHWH.
