GOSPEL OF THOMAS 
– 
FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Nag Hammadi Coptic/Greek fragments with YHWH framework alignment.

Whoever finds the interpretation of these sayings will not experience death. These are the secret sayings which the living Yeshua spoke and which Didymos Judas Thomas wrote down. The one who seeks will find. The one who knocks will have the door opened. The kingdom is inside of you and it is outside of you. When you come to know yourselves then you will become known and you will realize that it is you who are the sons of the living Father. But if you will not know yourselves you dwell in poverty and it is you who are that poverty.
Yeshua said the kingdom of the Father is like a merchant who had a load of merchandise and then found a pearl. That merchant was shrewd. He sold the merchandise and bought the pearl alone for himself. You also seek his unfailing and enduring treasure where no moth comes near to devour and no worm destroys.
Yeshua said the one who has come to know the world has found a corpse and the one who has found a corpse the world is not worthy of him. The one who has found the world and become wealthy should renounce the world.
Yeshua said the foxes have their holes and the birds have their nests but the son of man has no place to lay his head and rest.
Yeshua said woe to the flesh that depends on the soul. Woe to the soul that depends on the flesh. These two are troubled together.
Yeshua said I shall choose you one out of a thousand and two out of ten thousand and they shall stand as a single one.
Yeshua said when you make the two one and when you make the inside like the outside and the outside like the inside and the above like the below and when you make the male and the female one and the same so that the male not be male nor the female female then you will enter the kingdom.
Yeshua said I am the light that is over all things. I am the All. From me the All came forth and to me the All reached. Split a piece of wood and I am there. Lift up the stone and you will find me there.
Yeshua said the harvest is great but the laborers are few. Pray to the Lord that he send out laborers into the harvest.
Yeshua said many are standing at the door but it is the solitary one who will enter the bridal chamber.
Yeshua said the kingdom of the Father is like a woman who was carrying a jar full of meal. While she was walking on a distant road the handle of the jar broke and the meal emptied out behind her on the road. She did not realize it. She did not know how to fix it. When she reached her house she set the jar down and found it empty.
Yeshua said the kingdom of the Father is like a man who wanted to kill a powerful man. In his own house he drew his sword and stuck it into the wall in order to find out whether his hand could carry through. Then he slew the powerful man.
Yeshua said the one who knows the All but is lacking in himself is lacking everywhere.
Yeshua said blessed are the solitary and elect for you will find the kingdom. For you are from it and to it you will return.
Yeshua said if they say to you where did you come from say to them we came from the light the place where the light came into being of itself. It established itself and revealed itself in their image. If they say to you who are you say we are its sons and we are the elect of the living Father.
Yeshua said when you see your likeness you rejoice. But when you see your images that came into being before you and that neither die nor become manifest how much you will have to bear.
Yeshua said I have cast fire upon the world and see I am guarding it until it blazes.
Yeshua said this heaven will pass away and the one above it will pass away. The dead are not alive and the living will not die. In the days when you consumed what is dead you made it what is alive. When you come to dwell in the light what will you do? On the day you were one you became two. But when you become two what will you do?
Yeshua said blessed is the man who has suffered and found life.
Yeshua said look to the living one while you are alive lest you die and seek to see him and be unable to do so.
Yeshua said the kingdom is like a shepherd who had a hundred sheep. One of them the largest went astray. He left the ninety-nine and sought after the one until he found it. When he had gone to such trouble he said to the sheep I care for you more than the ninety-nine.
Yeshua said the kingdom of the Father is like a woman who took a little leaven and concealed it in some dough and made it into large loaves. Let the one who has ears hear.
Yeshua said the kingdom of the Father is like a man who had good seed. His enemy came by night and sowed weeds among the good seed. The man did not allow them to pull up the weeds. He said to them I am afraid that you will pull up the wheat along with it. For on the day of the harvest the weeds will appear. They will be pulled up and burned.
Yeshua said blessed are you when you are hated and persecuted. Where you have been persecuted they will find no place.
Yeshua said congratulations to the one who has toiled and has found life.
Yeshua said the one who has come to know the world has found a corpse. The one who has found a corpse the world is not worthy of him.
Yeshua said show me the stone which the builders have rejected. That one is the cornerstone.
Yeshua said the one who knows everything but lacks in himself lacks everything.
Yeshua said the kingdom of YHWH is spread out upon the earth and men do not see it.
Yeshua said split a piece of wood and I am there. Lift up the stone and you will find me.
Yeshua said the one who seeks will find. The one who knocks will have the door opened.
These are the secret sayings which the living Yeshua spoke and which Didymos Judas Thomas wrote down.
