GOSPEL OF MARY

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Berlin Codex / Gnostic Greek/Coptic with YHWH framework alignment.

4

Peace be with you. Acquire my peace within yourselves. Beware that no one leads you astray, saying ‘Lo here!’ or ‘Lo there!’ For the Son of Man is within you. Follow after him. Those who seek him will find him. Then Mary stood up, greeted them all, and said to her brothers: Do not weep and do not grieve nor be irresolute, for his grace will be entirely with you and will protect you. Rather, let us praise his greatness, for he has prepared us and made us truly human. When he said these things, he departed. But the disciples were grieved and wept greatly, saying: How shall we go to the Gentiles and preach the gospel of the kingdom of the Son of Man? If they did not spare him, how will they spare us? Then Mary stood up and said: Do not weep and do not grieve nor be irresolute. For his grace will be entirely with you and will protect you. Peter said to Mary: Sister, we know that the Saviour loved you more than the rest of women. Tell us the words of the Saviour which you remember, which you know but we do not, nor have we heard them. Mary answered and said: What is hidden from you I will proclaim to you. And she began to speak to them these words: I saw the Lord in a vision and I said to him, Lord, I saw you today. He answered and said to me: Blessed are you that you did not waver at the sight of me. For where the mind is, there is the treasure. I said to him: Lord, does he who sees the vision see it through the soul or through the spirit? The Saviour answered and said: He does not see through the soul nor through the spirit, but through the mind which is between the two. And desire said: I did not see you descending, but now I see you ascending. Why do you lie since you belong to me? The soul answered and said: I saw you. You did not see me nor recognize me. I served you as a garment and you did not know me. When she had said this, she departed with great rejoicing and exultation.

3

The soul answered and said: I saw you. You did not see me nor recognize me. I served you as a garment and you did not know me. When she had said this, she departed with great rejoicing and exultation. Then the other powers began to accuse her: Come, let us seize her. They said: Where are you coming from, killer of men, or where are you going, conqueror of space? The soul answered and said: What binds me has been slain, and what surrounds me has been destroyed, and my desire has been brought to an end, and ignorance has died. In a world I was released from a world, and in a type from a heavenly type, and from the fetter of oblivion which is transient. From this time on will I attain to the rest of the time, of the season, of the aeon, in silence. When Mary had said this, she fell silent, since it was to this point that the Saviour had spoken with her. But Andrew answered and said to the brothers: Say what you wish to say about what she has said. I at least do not believe that the Saviour said this. For certainly these teachings are strange ideas. Peter answered and spoke concerning these same things. He questioned them about the Saviour: Did he really speak privately with a woman and not openly to us? Are we to turn about and all listen to her? Did he prefer her to us? Then Mary wept and said to Peter: My brother Peter, what do you think? Do you think that I thought this up myself in my heart, or that I am lying about the Saviour? Levi answered and said to Peter: Peter, you have always been hot-tempered. Now I see you contending against the woman like the adversaries. But if the Saviour made her worthy, who are you indeed to reject her? Surely the Saviour knows her very well. That is why he loved her more than us. Rather let us be ashamed and put on the perfect Man, and acquire him for ourselves as he commanded us, and preach the gospel, not laying down any other rule or law beyond what the Saviour said. When they heard this they began to go forth to proclaim and to preach.

2

When Mary had said this, she fell silent, since it was to this point that the Saviour had spoken with her. But Andrew answered and said to the brothers: Say what you wish to say about what she has said. I at least do not believe that the Saviour said this. For certainly these teachings are strange ideas. Peter answered and spoke concerning these same things. He questioned them about the Saviour: Did he really speak privately with a woman and not openly to us? Are we to turn about and all listen to her? Did he prefer her to us? Then Mary wept and said to Peter: My brother Peter, what do you think? Do you think that I thought this up myself in my heart, or that I am lying about the Saviour? Levi answered and said to Peter: Peter, you have always been hot-tempered. Now I see you contending against the woman like the adversaries. But if the Saviour made her worthy, who are you indeed to reject her? Surely the Saviour knows her very well. That is why he loved her more than us. Rather let us be ashamed and put on the perfect Man, and acquire him for ourselves as he commanded us, and preach the gospel, not laying down any other rule or law beyond what the Saviour said.
Matter gave birth to a passion that has no equal, which proceeded from something contrary to nature. Then a disturbance occurred in the whole body. That is why I said to you, ‘Be of good courage’, and if you are discouraged, be encouraged in the presence of the different forms of nature. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. When the Saviour had said this, he greeted them all, saying: Peace be with you. Acquire my peace within yourselves. Beware that no one leads you astray, saying ‘Lo here!’ or ‘Lo there!’ For the Son of Man is within you. Follow after him. Those who seek him will find him. Then Mary stood up, greeted them all, and said to her brothers: Do not weep and do not grieve nor be irresolute, for his grace will be entirely with you and will protect you. Rather, let us praise his greatness, for he has prepared us and made us truly human.
The Saviour said: There is no sin, but it is you who make sin when you do the things that are like the nature of adultery, which is called sin. For this reason the Good came into your midst, to the essence of every nature, in order to restore it to its root. Then he continued and said: That is why you become sick and die, because you are deprived of the one who can heal you. He who understands, let him understand. Matter gave birth to a passion that has no equal, which proceeded from something contrary to nature. Then there arises a disturbance in the whole body. That is why I said to you, ‘Be of good courage’, and if you are discouraged, be encouraged in the presence of the different forms of nature. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.

1

The Saviour said: There is no sin, but it is you who make sin when you do the things that are like the nature of adultery, which is called sin. For this reason the Good came into your midst, to the essence of every nature, in order to restore it to its root. Then he continued and said: That is why you become sick and die, because you are deprived of the one who can heal you. He who understands, let him understand. Matter gave birth to a passion that has no equal, which proceeded from something contrary to nature. Then there arises a disturbance in the whole body. That is why I said to you, ‘Be of good courage’, and if you are discouraged, be encouraged in the presence of the different forms of nature. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
When the Saviour had finished speaking, he greeted them all, saying: Peace be with you. Acquire my peace within yourselves. Beware that no one leads you astray, saying ‘Lo here!’ or ‘Lo there!’ For the Son of Man is within you. Follow after him. Those who seek him will find him. Go then and preach the gospel of the kingdom. Do not lay down any other rule or law beyond what I appointed for you, and do not give a law like the lawgiver lest you be constrained by it. When he had said this, he departed.
But the disciples were grieved and wept greatly, saying: How shall we go to the Gentiles and preach the gospel of the kingdom of the Son of Man? If they did not spare him, how will they spare us? Then Mary stood up, greeted them all, and said to her brothers: Do not weep and do not grieve nor be irresolute, for his grace will be entirely with you and will protect you. Rather, let us praise his greatness, for he has prepared us and made us truly human.

0i

But the disciples were grieved and wept greatly, saying: How shall we go to the Gentiles and preach the gospel of the kingdom of the Son of Man? If they did not spare him, how will they spare us? Then Mary stood up, greeted them all, and said to her brothers: Do not weep and do not grieve nor be irresolute, for his grace will be entirely with you and will protect you. Rather, let us praise his greatness, for he has prepared us and made us truly human.
When the Saviour had finished speaking, he greeted them all, saying: Peace be with you. Acquire my peace within yourselves. Beware that no one leads you astray, saying ‘Lo here!’ or ‘Lo there!’ For the Son of Man is within you. Follow after him. Those who seek him will find him.
