INFANCY GOSPEL OF THOMAS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Nag Hammadi / Greek / Latin manuscript traditions with YHWH framework alignment.


And the child Yeshua increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with YHWH and man.
And all who heard Him were amazed. And when the teachers asked Him questions He answered them and explained the law and the parables of the prophets.
And after three days they found Him in the temple sitting in the midst of the teachers listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers.
And His parents went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover. And when He was twelve years old they went up according to custom. And when the feast was ended as they were returning the boy Yeshua stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it but supposing Him to be in the group they went a day’s journey and then they began to search for Him among their relatives and acquaintances and when they did not find Him they returned to Jerusalem searching for Him.
And He went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And His mother kept all these things in her heart.
And He said to them “Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father’s house?”
And the teachers said “Who are You that You can do these things?” And the child Yeshua said to them “Do you not know who I am? I am from above so that those who are below may be instructed by me. I am among you as one who is from above that you may know from whom I have come. I know when you were born and I know your fathers and mothers and I will tell you who you are.”
And when He was six years old His mother sent Him to fetch water. And the child broke the pitcher and then gathered the water in His garment and brought it to His mother.
And many other such signs did the child Yeshua perform before all Israel and greater signs than these.
And many other such things did the child Yeshua do while living in the world among men.
And the child Yeshua grew and became strong filled with wisdom and the favor of YHWH was upon Him.

And the child Yeshua grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him. These are the mighty works which the Lord Yeshua the Anointed did when He was five years old.
This is the account of the childhood of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed which He wrought when He was in the land of Israel, beginning from His fifth year.
When the boy Yeshua was five years old, He was playing at the ford of a stream. He gathered the running waters into pools and made them pure by His word alone. Then He fashioned twelve sparrows from the soft clay.
These are the wonderful works which the Lord Yeshua the Anointed, the Son of YHWH, did in His childhood.
