JAMES

YHWH Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN

Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH5

My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from truth and someone brings him back, let him know that he who turns sinner from error of his way will save his soul from death and will cover multitude of sins.
Elijah was man with nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and earth brought forth its fruit.
Prayer of righteous man has great power as it is working. Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed.
Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for elders of assembly, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in name of YHWH. And prayer of faith will save one who is sick, and YHWH will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
Above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your “yes” be yes and your “no” be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.
Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of steadfastness of Job, and you have seen purpose of YHWH, how YHWH is compassionate and merciful.
As example of suffering and patience, brothers, take prophets who spoke in name of YHWH. Behold, we call those blessed who endured.
Be patient, therefore, brothers, until coming of YHWH. See how farmer waits for precious fruit of earth, being patient about it, until it receives early and late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for coming of YHWH is at hand.
Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, judge is standing at door.
Do not weep and howl for miseries that are coming upon you. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in last days. You have lived on earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered righteous person. He does not resist you.
Come now, you rich, weep and howl for miseries that are coming upon you.

CH4

So whoever knows right thing to do and fails to do it — for him it is sin.
As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. Instead you ought to say “If YHWH wills we will live and do this or that.” Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are mist that appears for little time and then vanishes. Come now you who say “Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such town and spend year there and trade and make profit.”
There is only one lawgiver and judge — He who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Do not speak evil against one another brothers. One who speaks against brother or judges his brother speaks evil against law and judges law. But if you judge law you are not doer of law but judge.
Humble yourselves before YHWH and He will exalt you. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Draw near to YHWH and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands you sinners and purify your hearts you double-minded. Submit yourselves therefore to YHWH. Resist devil and he will flee from you.
But He gives more grace. Therefore it says “YHWH opposes proud but gives grace to humble.” Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that Scripture says “He yearns jealously over spirit that He has made to dwell in us”?
You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with world is enmity with YHWH? Therefore whoever wishes to be friend of world makes himself enemy of YHWH. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You desire and do not have so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. What causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not this — that your passions are at war within you?

CH3

And harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
But wisdom from above is first pure then peaceable gentle open to reason full of mercy and good fruits impartial and sincere.
For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist there will be disorder and every vile practice.
This is not wisdom that comes down from above but is earthly unspiritual demonic.
Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show works in meekness of wisdom.
With it we bless YHWH and Father and with it we curse people who are made in likeness of YHWH. From same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers these things ought not to be so.
Does spring pour forth from same opening fresh water and salt water? Can fig tree my brothers bear olives or grapevine produce figs? Neither can salt water yield fresh.
So also tongue is small member yet boasts of great things. How great forest is set ablaze by such small fire! And tongue is fire world of unrighteousness. Tongue is set among our members staining whole body setting on fire course of life and set on fire by Gehenna.
For every kind of beast and bird of reptile and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind but no human being can tame tongue. It is restless evil full of deadly poison.
If anyone does not stumble in what he says he is perfect man able also to bridle whole body.
For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says he is perfect man.
Not many of you should become teachers my brothers for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness.

CH2

For as body apart from spirit is dead so also faith apart from works is dead.
You see that faith was active along with his works and faith was completed by his works. And scripture was fulfilled that says “Abraham believed YHWH and it was counted to him as righteousness” — and he was called friend of YHWH. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac his son on altar?
In same way was not Rahab prostitute also justified by works when she received messengers and sent them out by another way?
For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
If you really fulfill royal law according to Scripture “You shall love your neighbor as yourself” you are doing well. But if you show partiality you are committing sin and are convicted by law as transgressors.
My brothers show no partiality as you hold faith in our Lord Yeshua the Anointed of glory.
What good is it my brothers if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food and one of you says to them “Go in peace be warmed and filled” without giving them things needed for body what good is that?
Listen my beloved brothers has not YHWH chosen those who are poor in world to be rich in faith and heirs of kingdom that He has promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored poor man. Are not rich ones who oppress you and drag you into court? Are they not ones who blaspheme honorable name by which you were called?
But you have dishonored poor man. Are not rich ones who oppress you and drag you into court? Are they not ones who blaspheme honorable name by which you were called?
My brothers show no partiality as you hold faith in our Lord Yeshua the Anointed of glory. For if man wearing gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly and poor man in shabby clothing also comes in and you pay attention to one who wears fine clothing and say “You sit here in good place” while you say to poor man “You stand over there” or “Sit down at my feet” have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts?

CH1

Religion that is pure and undefiled before YHWH and Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained from world.
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above coming down from Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of His own will He brought us forth by word of truth that we should be kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
Let no one say when he is tempted “I am being tempted by YHWH” for YHWH cannot be tempted with evil and He Himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.
Blessed is man who remains steadfast under trial for when he has stood test he will receive crown of life which YHWH has promised to those who love Him.
Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds for you know that testing of your faith produces steadfastness and let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete lacking in nothing.
If any of you lacks wisdom let him ask of YHWH who gives generously to all without reproach and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith with no doubting for one who doubts is like wave of sea driven and tossed by wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from YHWH. He is double-minded man unstable in all his ways.
Let brother in humble circumstances boast in his exaltation and rich in his humiliation because like flower of grass he will pass away. For sun rises with scorching heat and withers grass. Its flower falls and beauty of its appearance is destroyed. So also will rich man fade away in midst of his pursuits.
Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness implanted word which is able to save your souls. But be doers of word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is hearer of word and not doer he is like man who looks intently at his natural face in mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But one who looks into perfect law of liberty and perseveres being no hearer who forgets but doer who acts he will be blessed in his doing.
Know this my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear slow to speak slow to anger for anger of man does not produce righteousness of YHWH. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness.
Of His own will He brought us forth by word of truth that we should be kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
Let no one say when he is tempted “I am being tempted by YHWH” for YHWH tempts no one.
Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds.
If any of you lacks wisdom let him ask of YHWH.
James servant of YHWH and of Lord Yeshua Anointed to twelve tribes in Dispersion: Greetings.

