JUDE

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


Now to Him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before presence of His glory with great joy — to only YHWH our Savior through Yeshua the Anointed our Lord be glory majesty dominion and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen.
But you beloved building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in Holy Spirit keep yourselves in love of YHWH waiting for mercy of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed that leads to eternal life. And have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of fire. To others show mercy with fear hating even garment stained by flesh.
These are grumblers malcontents following their own sinful desires. Their mouth speaks great swelling words flattering people to their own advantage. These are hidden reefs at your love feasts as they feast with you without fear shepherds feeding themselves. Waterless clouds swept along by winds fruitless trees in late autumn twice dead uprooted wild waves of sea casting up foam of their own shame wandering stars for whom gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.
Enoch seventh from Adam prophesied of these saying “Behold YHWH comes with ten thousands of His holy ones to execute judgment on all and to convict all ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such ungodly way and of all harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.”
It was also about these that Enoch prophesied…
These are those who set up divisions worldly people devoid of Spirit. But you beloved remember words spoken before by apostles of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. They said to you “In last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions.” These are people who cause divisions worldly people devoid of Spirit.
Yet in like manner these people also relying on their dreams defile flesh reject authority and blaspheme glorious ones. But when archangel Michael contending with devil was disputing about body of Moses he did not presume to pronounce blasphemous judgment but said “YHWH rebuke you!” But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand and they are destroyed by all that they like unreasoning animals understand instinctively.
Beloved although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for faith that was once for all delivered to saints. For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation ungodly people who pervert grace of our YHWH into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Jude servant of Yeshua the Anointed and brother of James. To those who are called beloved in YHWH the Father and kept for Yeshua the Anointed. May mercy peace and love be multiplied to you.

Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about the salvation we share, I felt compelled to write and urge you to contend for the faith that was once for all entrusted to God’s holy people.
Jude, a servant of Yeshua the Anointed and a brother of James, To those who have been called, who are loved by God the Father and kept by Yeshua the Anointed: Mercy, peace and love be yours in abundance.
