MALACHI

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.

CH4

And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall. And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith YHWH of hosts. Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of YHWH.

CH3

Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto YHWH, as in the days of old, and as in former years. And they shall be mine, saith YHWH of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Then they that feared YHWH spake often one to another: and YHWH hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared YHWH, and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine… For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith YHWH of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings… Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith YHWH of hosts. But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner’s fire, and like fullers’ soap: And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto YHWH an offering in righteousness. Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto YHWH… And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith YHWH of hosts. For I am YHWH, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith YHWH of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return? Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith YHWH of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith YHWH of hosts. And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith YHWH of hosts. Your words have been stout against me, saith YHWH. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said, It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before YHWH of hosts? And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. Then they that feared YHWH spake often one to another…


CH2

Ye have wearied YHWH with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of YHWH, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the God of judgment? Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning the covenant of our fathers? Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of YHWH which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god. The LORD will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto YHWH of hosts. And this have ye done again, covering the altar of YHWH with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at your hand. Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because YHWH hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For YHWH, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith YHWH of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously. Ye have wearied YHWH with your words… And this have ye done again… Have we not all one father?… Judah hath dealt treacherously… The LORD will cut off the man… And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to give glory unto my name, saith YHWH of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings: yea, I have cursed them already, because ye do not lay it to heart. Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away with it. And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith YHWH of hosts. My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name. The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of YHWH of hosts. But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble at the law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith YHWH of hosts. Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in the law.

CH1

And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith YHWH of hosts. And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith YHWH of hosts. Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith YHWH of hosts; and ye brought that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should I accept this of your hand? saith YHWH. But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: for I am a great King, saith YHWH of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen. For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith YHWH of hosts. And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice… Ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in the law… And ye have done this again… Have we not all one father?… Judah hath dealt treacherously… The LORD will cut off the man… And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you… Ye have wearied YHWH with your words… Ye have said, It is vain to serve God… And now we call the proud happy… Then they that feared YHWH spake often one to another… Your words have been stout against me… Will a man rob God?… Bring ye all the tithes… And I will rebuke the devourer… And all nations shall call you blessed… But ye said, Wherein have we robbed thee?… Return unto me, and I will return unto you… Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances… For I am YHWH, I change not… And I will come near to you to judgment… And I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers… Behold, I will send my messenger… But who may abide the day of his coming?… And he shall sit as a refiner… For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven… But unto you that fear my name… Remember ye the law of Moses… Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet…

0i

Thus the prophetic word closes with the promise of Elijah’s coming before the great and dreadful day of YHWH, the turning of hearts, the Sun of righteousness rising with healing, the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, the book of remembrance, the refining fire, the messenger of the covenant suddenly appearing in the temple, the call to bring tithes, the robbing of God, the weariness of empty worship, the polluted offerings, the corrupt priesthood, the despising of YHWH’s name, and the opening burden: “I have loved you, saith YHWH. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us?” — flowing backward from the final eschatological hope and covenant renewal to the initial declaration of divine love and the rebuke of a faithless people in post-exilic Judah.

