MATTHEW

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.

CH28

And behold I am with you always to the end of the age.
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you.
Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Yeshua had directed them. And when they saw Him they worshiped Him but some doubted. And Yeshua came and said to them “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.”
While they were going behold some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said “Tell people ‘His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we were asleep.’ And if this comes to the governor’s ears we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.” So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.
Some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place.
Suddenly Yeshua met them and said “Greetings!” And they came up and took hold of His feet and worshiped Him. Then Yeshua said to them “Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee and there they will see me.”
So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell His disciples.
And behold there was a great earthquake for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women “Do not be afraid for I know that you seek Yeshua who was crucified. He is not here for He has risen as He said. Come see the place where He lay. Then go quickly and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead and behold He is going before you to Galilee. There you will see Him. See I have told you.”
Now after the Sabbath toward the dawn of the first day of the week Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb.

CH27

And Mary Magdalene was there and the other Mary sitting opposite the tomb.
Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud and laid it in his own new tomb that he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away.
When it was evening there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph who also was a disciple of Yeshua. He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Yeshua. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.
The centurion and those who were with him keeping watch over Yeshua when they saw the earthquake and what took place were filled with fear and said “Truly this was the Son of YHWH.”
Yeshua cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up His spirit. And behold the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook and the rocks were split. The tombs also were opened and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised and coming out of the tombs after His resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.
And about the ninth hour Yeshua cried out with a loud voice saying “Eli Eli lema sabachthani?” that is “My YHWH my YHWH why have You forsaken me?” And some of the bystanders hearing it said “This man is calling Elijah.” And one of them at once ran and took a sponge filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave it to Him to drink. But the others said “Wait let us see whether Elijah will come to save Him.”
And those who passed by derided Him wagging their heads and saying “You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days save Yourself! If You are the Son of YHWH come down from the cross.” So also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked Him saying “He saved others. He cannot save Himself. He is the King of Israel. Let Him come down now from the cross and we will believe in Him. He trusts in YHWH. Let YHWH deliver Him now if He desires Him for He said ‘I am the Son of YHWH.’”
Then two robbers were crucified with Him one on the right and one on the left.
And when they had crucified Him they divided His garments among them by casting lots. Then they sat down and kept watch over Him there. And over His head they put the charge against Him which read “This is Yeshua the King of the Jews.”
And when they came to a place called Golgotha which means Place of a Skull they offered Him wine to drink mixed with gall but when He tasted it He would not drink it.
Then the governor’s soldiers took Yeshua into the governor’s headquarters and they gathered the whole battalion before Him. And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him and twisting together a crown of thorns they put it on His head and put a reed in His right hand. And kneeling before Him they mocked Him saying “Hail King of the Jews!” And they spit on Him and took the reed and struck Him on the head. And when they had mocked Him they stripped Him of the robe and put His own clothes on Him and led Him away to crucify Him.
So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing but rather that a riot was beginning he took water and washed his hands before the crowd saying “I am innocent of this man’s blood. See to it yourselves.” And all the people answered “His blood be on us and on our children!” Then he released for them Barabbas and having scourged Yeshua delivered Him to be crucified.
They said “His blood be on us and on our children!”
Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. So when they had gathered Pilate said to them “Whom do you want me to release for you: Barabbas or Yeshua who is called the Anointed?” For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered Him up. Besides while he was sitting on the judgment seat his wife sent word to him “Have nothing to do with that righteous man for I have suffered much because of Him today in a dream.” Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Yeshua. The governor again said to them “Which of the two do you want me to release for you?” And they said “Barabbas.” Pilate said to them “Then what shall I do with Yeshua who is called the Anointed?” They all said “Let Him be crucified!” And he said “Why what evil has He done?” But they shouted all the more “Let Him be crucified!”
Then Pilate took Yeshua and flogged Him.
So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing…
When morning came all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Yeshua to put Him to death. And they bound Him and led Him away and delivered Him over to Pilate the governor.

CH26

And he went out and wept bitterly.
And Peter remembered the saying of Yeshua “Before the rooster crows you will deny me three times.” And he went out and wept bitterly.
But Peter followed Him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest and going inside he sat with the guards to see the end. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Yeshua that they might put Him to death but they found none though many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward and said “This man said ‘I am able to destroy the temple of YHWH and to rebuild it in three days.’” And the high priest stood up and said “Have You no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against You?” But Yeshua remained silent. And the high priest said to Him “I adjure You by the living YHWH tell us if You are the Anointed the Son of YHWH.” Yeshua said to him “You have said so. But I tell you from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.” Then the high priest tore his robes and said “He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have now heard His blasphemy. What is your judgment?” They answered “He deserves death.” Then they spit in His face and struck Him and some slapped Him saying “Prophesy to us You Anointed! Who is it that struck You?”
Then those who had seized Yeshua led Him to Caiaphas the high priest where the scribes and the elders had gathered.
Then all the disciples left Him and fled. And behold one of those who were with Yeshua stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. Then Yeshua said to him “Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father and He will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so?” At that hour Yeshua said to the crowds “Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching and you did not seize me. But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.”
Then they came up and laid hands on Yeshua and seized Him.
And He came to the disciples and found them sleeping and He said to Peter “So could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing but the flesh is weak.” Again for the second time He went away and prayed “My Father if this cannot pass unless I drink it Your will be done.” And again He came and found them sleeping for their eyes were heavy. So leaving them again He went away and prayed for the third time saying the same words again. Then He came to the disciples and said to them “Sleep and take your rest. Behold the hour is at hand and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise let us be going. See my betrayer is at hand.”
And going a little farther He fell on His face and prayed saying “My Father if it be possible let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless not as I will but as You will.”
Then He said to them “My soul is very sorrowful even to death. Remain here and watch with me.”
Then Yeshua went with them to a place called Gethsemane and He said to the disciples “Sit here while I go over there and pray.”
And when they had sung a hymn they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Yeshua said to them “You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written ‘I will strike the shepherd and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’ But after I am raised up I will go before you to Galilee.” Peter answered Him “Though they all fall away because of You I will never fall away.” Yeshua said to him “Truly I tell you this very night before the rooster crows you will deny me three times.” Peter said to Him “Even if I must die with You I will not deny You.” And all the disciples said the same.
Now as they were eating Yeshua took bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to the disciples and said “Take eat this is my body.” And He took a cup and when He had given thanks He gave it to them saying “Drink of it all of you for this is my blood of the covenant which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father’s kingdom.”
When it was evening He reclined at table with the twelve. And as they were eating He said “Truly I say to you one of you will betray me.” And they were very sorrowful and began to say to Him one after another “Is it I Lord?” He answered “The one who has dipped his hand with me in the dish will betray me. The Son of Man goes as it is written of Him but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.” Judas who would betray Him answered “Is it I Rabbi?” He said to him “You have said so.”

CH25

And these will go away into eternal punishment but the righteous into eternal life.
Then He will answer them saying ‘Truly I say to you as you did not do it to one of the least of these you did not do it to me.’
Then He will say to those on His left ‘Depart from me you cursed into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food I was thirsty and you gave me no drink I was a stranger and you did not welcome me naked and you did not clothe me sick and in prison and you did not visit me.’
Then the King will answer them ‘Truly I say to you as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers you did it to me.’ Then the righteous will answer Him saying ‘Lord when did we see You hungry and feed You or thirsty and give You drink? And when did we see You a stranger and welcome You or naked and clothe You? And when did we see You sick or in prison and visit You?’
For I was hungry and you gave me food I was thirsty and you gave me drink I was a stranger and you welcomed me I was naked and you clothed me I was sick and you visited me I was in prison and you came to me.
Then the King will say to those on His right ‘Come you who are blessed by my Father inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.’
When the Son of Man comes in His glory and all the angels with Him then He will sit on His glorious throne. Before Him will be gathered all the nations and He will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And He will place the sheep on His right but the goats on the left.
For to everyone who has will more be given and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not even what he has will be taken away. And cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
But his master said to him ‘Well done good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.’
His master said to him ‘Well done good and faithful servant…’
But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master’s money. Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. And he who had received the five talents came forward bringing five talents more saying ‘Master you delivered to me five talents. See I have made five talents more.’ His master said to him ‘Well done good and faithful servant…’
For it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents to another two to another one to each according to his ability. Then he went away.
Watch therefore for you know neither the day nor the hour.
But the wise replied saying ‘Since there will not be enough for us and for you go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves.’ And while they were going to buy the bridegroom came and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also saying ‘Lord lord open to us.’ But he answered ‘Truly I say to you I do not know you.’
Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the wise ‘Give us some of your oil for our lamps are going out.’
Five of them were foolish and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps they took no oil with them but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed they all became drowsy and slept.
Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom.

CH24

Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you he will set him over all his possessions. But if that wicked servant says in his heart ‘My master is delayed’ and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Who then is the faithful and wise servant whom his master has set over his household to give them their food at the proper time?
Heaven and earth will pass away but my words will not pass away. But concerning that day and hour no one knows not even the angels of heaven nor the Son but the Father only. For as were the days of Noah so will be the coming of the Son of Man. For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field one will be taken and one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill one will be taken and one left. Therefore stay awake for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
From the fig tree learn its lesson. As soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves you know that summer is near. So also when you see all these things you know that He is near at the very gates. Truly I say to you this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light and the stars will fall from heaven and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And He will send out His angels with a loud trumpet call and they will gather His elect from the four winds from one end of heaven to the other.
For then there will be great tribulation such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now no and never will be. And if those days had not been cut short no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short.
And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will be increased the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations and then the end will come.
Then if anyone says to you ‘Look there is the Anointed!’ or ‘Here He is!’ do not believe it. For false anointed ones and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray if possible even the elect. See I have told you beforehand.
So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place (let the reader understand) then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath. For then there will be great tribulation such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now.
See that you are not alarmed for this must take place but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning of the birth pains.
And Yeshua answered them “See that no one leads you astray. For many will come in my name saying ‘I am the Anointed’ and they will lead many astray. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars.
Yeshua left the temple and was going away when His disciples came to point out to Him the buildings of the temple. But He answered them “You see all these do you not? Truly I say to you there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.”

CH23

For I tell you you will not see me again until you say ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of YHWH.’
O Jerusalem Jerusalem the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings and you were not willing! See your house is left to you desolate.
You serpents you brood of vipers how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes some of whom you will kill and crucify and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town so that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barachiah whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. Truly I say to you all these things will come upon this generation.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous saying ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’ Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your fathers.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte and when he becomes a proselyte you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.
Woe to you blind guides who say ‘If anyone swears by the temple it is nothing but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple he is bound by his oath.’ You blind fools! For which is greater the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred? And you say ‘If anyone swears by the altar it is nothing but if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar he is bound by his oath.’ You blind men! For which is greater the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred? So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by Him who dwells in it. And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of YHWH and by Him who sits upon it.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. You blind guides straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you clean the outside of the cup and the plate but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate that the outside also may be clean.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you are like whitewashed tombs which outwardly appear beautiful but within are full of dead people’s bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you shut the kingdom of heaven in people’s faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you devour widows’ houses and for a pretense you make long prayers. Therefore you will receive the greater condemnation.
Woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites for you traverse sea and land to make a single proselyte…
The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
But you are not to be called rabbi for you have one teacher and you are all brothers. And call no man your father on earth for you have one Father who is in heaven. Neither be called instructors for you have one instructor the Anointed.
They love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others.
They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues.
The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses’ seat so do and observe whatever they tell you but not the works they do. For they preach but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens hard to bear and lay them on people’s shoulders but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger.
Then Yeshua said to the crowds and to His disciples…

CH22

And no one was able to answer Him a word nor from that day did anyone dare to ask Him any more questions.
If then David calls Him Lord how is He his son? And no one was able to answer Him a word.
While the Pharisees were gathered together Yeshua asked them “What do you think about the Anointed? Whose son is He?” They said to Him “The son of David.” He said to them “How is it then that David in the Spirit calls Him Lord saying ‘The Lord said to my Lord sit at my right hand until I put Your enemies under Your feet’?
And one of them a lawyer asked Him a question to test Him “Teacher which is the great commandment in the Law?” And He said to him “You shall love the Lord your YHWH with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.”
But when the Pharisees heard that He had silenced the Sadducees they gathered together.
The same day Sadducees came to Him who say that there is no resurrection and they asked Him a question saying “Teacher Moses said ‘If a man dies having no children his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.’ Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died and having no offspring left his wife to his brother. So too the second and third down to the seventh. After them all the woman died. In the resurrection of the seven whose wife will she be? For they all had her.” Yeshua answered them “You are wrong because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of YHWH. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage but are like angels in heaven. And as for the resurrection of the dead have you not read what was said to you by YHWH ‘I am the YHWH of Abraham and the YHWH of Isaac and the YHWH of Jacob’? He is not YHWH of the dead but of the living.” And when the crowd heard it they were astonished at His teaching.
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and to YHWH the things that are YHWH’s. When they heard it they marveled. And they left Him and went away.
Show me the coin for the tax. And they brought Him a denarius. And Yeshua said to them “Whose likeness and inscription is this?” They said “Caesar’s.” Then He said to them “Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and to YHWH the things that are YHWH’s.”
But Yeshua aware of their malice said “Why put me to the test you hypocrites?”
Then the Pharisees went and plotted how to entangle Him in His words. And they sent their disciples to Him along with the Herodians saying “Teacher we know that You are true and teach the way of YHWH truthfully and You do not care about anyone’s opinion for You are not swayed by appearances. Tell us then what do You think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not?”
But when the king came in to look at the guests he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him ‘Friend how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants ‘Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ For many are called but few are chosen.
Then he said to his servants ‘The wedding feast is ready but those invited were not worthy. Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.’ And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests.
But they paid no attention and went off one to his farm another to his business while the rest seized his servants treated them shamefully and killed them. The king was angry and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Again he sent other servants saying ‘Tell those who are invited see I have prepared my dinner my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.’ But they paid no attention…
The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast but they would not come.

CH21

And when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that He did and the children crying out in the temple “Hosanna to the Son of David!” they were indignant and they said to Him “Do You hear what these are saying?” And Yeshua said to them “Yes have you never read ‘Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies You have prepared praise’?” And leaving them He went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple and He healed them.
And Yeshua entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple and He overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. He said to them “It is written ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer’ but you make it a den of robbers.”
And the crowds that went before Him and that followed Him were shouting “Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He who comes in the name of YHWH! Hosanna in the highest!” And when He entered Jerusalem the whole city was stirred up saying “Who is this?” And the crowds said “This is the prophet Yeshua from Nazareth of Galilee.”
Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
When they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage to the Mount of Olives then Yeshua sent two disciples saying to them “Go into the village in front of you and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you you shall say ‘The Lord needs them’ and he will send them at once.” This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet saying “Say to the daughter of Zion ‘Behold your king is coming to you humble and mounted on a donkey and on a colt the foal of a beast of burden.’”
Now when they drew near to Jerusalem…
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple and He healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that He did and the children crying out in the temple “Hosanna to the Son of David!” they were indignant.
And the fig tree withered at once. When the disciples saw it they marveled saying “How did the fig tree wither at once?” And Yeshua answered them “Truly I say to you if you have faith and do not doubt you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree but even if you say to this mountain ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea’ it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer you will receive if you have faith.”
In the morning as He was returning to the city He became hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the wayside He went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And He said to it “May no fruit ever come from you again!” And the fig tree withered at once.
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple and He healed them.
Yeshua said to them “Truly I say to you the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of YHWH before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness and you did not believe him but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it you did not afterward change your minds and believe him.”
Which of the two did the will of his father? They said “The first.” Yeshua said to them “Truly I say to you the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of YHWH before you.”
He said to him “I will not” but afterward he changed his mind and went. And the father went to the other son and said the same. And he answered ‘I go sir’ but did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father?
What do you think? A man had two sons. And he went to the first and said ‘Son go and work in the vineyard today.’ And he answered ‘I will not’ but afterward he changed his mind and went.
Yeshua said to them “I will ask you one question and if you tell me the answer then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John from where did it come? From heaven or from man?” And they discussed it among themselves saying “If we say ‘From heaven’ He will say to us ‘Why then did you not believe him?’ But if we say ‘From man’ we are afraid of the crowd for they all hold that John was a prophet.” So they answered Yeshua “We do not know.” And He said to them “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”
And they said to Him “By what authority are You doing these things and who gave You this authority?”

CH20

And as they went out of Jericho a great crowd followed Him. And behold two blind men sitting by the roadside when they heard that Yeshua was passing by cried out “Lord have mercy on us Son of David!” The crowd rebuked them telling them to be silent but they cried out all the more “Lord have mercy on us Son of David!” And stopping Yeshua called them and said “What do you want me to do for you?” They said to Him “Lord let our eyes be opened.” And Yeshua in pity touched their eyes and immediately they recovered their sight and followed Him.
And whoever would be first among you must be your slave even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many.
But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant and whoever would be first among you must be your slave.
But Yeshua called them to Him and said “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them and their great ones exercise authority over them.”
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to Him with her sons and kneeling before Him she asked Him for something. And He said to her “What do you want?” She said to Him “Say that these two sons of mine are to sit one at Your right hand and one at Your left in Your kingdom.” Yeshua answered “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink?” They said to Him “We are able.” He said to them “You will drink my cup but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.” And when the ten heard it they were indignant at the two brothers.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to Him…
And as Yeshua was going up to Jerusalem He took the twelve disciples aside and on the way He said to them “See we are going up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes and they will condemn Him to death and deliver Him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified and He will be raised on the third day.”
For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day he sent them into his vineyard. And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace and to them he said ‘You go into the vineyard too and whatever is right I will give you.’ So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour he did the same. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them ‘Why do you stand here idle all day?’ They said to him ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them ‘You go into the vineyard too.’ And when evening came the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages beginning with the last up to the first.’ And when those hired about the eleventh hour came each of them received a denarius. Now when those hired first came they thought they would receive more but each of them also received a denarius. And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house saying ‘These last worked only one hour and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’ But he replied to one of them ‘Friend I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?’ So the last will be first and the first last.

CH19

And many who are first will be last and the last first.
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for my name’s sake will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life.
Yeshua said to them “Truly I say to you in the new world when the Son of Man will sit on His glorious throne you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”
Then Peter said in reply “See we have left everything and followed You. What then will we have?”
Yeshua said to him “If you would be perfect go sell what you possess and give to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven and come follow me.” When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful for he had great possessions. And Yeshua said to His disciples “Truly I say to you only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of YHWH.” When the disciples heard this they were greatly astonished saying “Who then can be saved?” But Yeshua looked at them and said “With man this is impossible but with YHWH all things are possible.”
Yeshua said “You shall not murder You shall not commit adultery You shall not steal You shall not bear false witness Honor your father and mother and You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” The young man said to Him “All these I have kept. What do I still lack?” Yeshua said to him…
And behold one came up to Him saying “Teacher what good deed must I do to have eternal life?” And He said to him “Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life keep the commandments.”
Then children were brought to Him that He might lay His hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people but Yeshua said “Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.” And He laid His hands on them and went away.
And Pharisees came up to Him and tested Him by asking “Is it lawful to divorce one’s wife for any cause?” He answered “Have you not read that He who created them from the beginning made them male and female and said ‘Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife and the two shall become one flesh’? So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore YHWH has joined together let not man separate.” They said to Him “Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away?” He said to them “Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives but from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery and the one who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.” The disciples said to Him “If such is the case of a man with his wife it is better not to marry.” But He said to them “Not everyone can receive this saying but only those to whom it is given. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.”
Now when Yeshua had finished these sayings He went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And large crowds followed Him and He healed them there.

CH18

So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart.
And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. Then his master summoned him and said to him ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you?’
The servant therefore fell down and worshiped him saying ‘Have patience with me and I will pay you everything.’ Out of pity for him the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that same servant went out he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii and seizing him he began to choke him saying ‘Pay what you owe.’ So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him ‘Have patience with me and I will pay you.’ He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.
Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made.
If your brother sins against you go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen take one or two others along with you that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name there am I among them.
See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it truly I say to you he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes!
Truly I say to you unless you turn and become like children you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child…
At that time the disciples came to Yeshua saying “Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?” And calling to Him a child He put him in the midst of them and said…

CH17

However this kind does not come out except by prayer and fasting.
And Yeshua rebuked the demon and it came out of him and the boy was healed instantly. Then the disciples came to Yeshua privately and said “Why could we not cast it out?” He said to them “Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed you will say to this mountain ‘Move from here to there’ and it will move and nothing will be impossible for you.”
And when they came to the crowd a man came up to Him and kneeling before Him said “Lord have mercy on my son for he has seizures and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire and often into the water. And I brought him to Your disciples and they could not heal him.” And Yeshua answered “O faithless and twisted generation how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me.” And Yeshua rebuked the demon…
As they were gathering in Galilee Yeshua said to them “The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill Him and He will be raised on the third day.” And they were greatly distressed.
And when they had come down from the mountain Yeshua commanded them “Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.”
And a voice from the cloud said “This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to Him.” When the disciples heard this they fell on their faces and were terrified. But Yeshua came and touched them saying “Rise and have no fear.” And when they lifted up their eyes they saw no one but Yeshua only.
He was still speaking when behold a bright cloud overshadowed them and a voice from the cloud said…
And He was transfigured before them and His face shone like the sun and His clothes became white as light. And behold there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with Him. And Peter said to Yeshua “Lord it is good that we are here. If You wish I will make three tents here one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah.” He was still speaking when behold a bright cloud overshadowed them…
And after six days Yeshua took with Him Peter and James and John his brother and led them up a high mountain by themselves.
And when they came to Capernaum the collectors of the two-drachma tax came to Peter and said “Does not your teacher pay the tax?” He said “Yes.” And when he came into the house Yeshua spoke to him first saying “What do you think Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others?” And when he said “From others” Yeshua said “Then the sons are free. However not to give offense to them go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself.”

CH16

Then Yeshua told His disciples “If anyone would come after me let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? For the Son of Man is going to come with His angels in the glory of His Father and then He will repay each person according to what he has done. Truly I say to you there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.”
From that time Yeshua began to show His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and on the third day be raised. And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him saying “Far be it from You Lord! This shall never happen to You.” But He turned and said to Peter “Get behind me Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of YHWH but on the things of man.”
He said to them “But who do you say that I am?” Simon Peter replied “You are the Anointed the Son of the living YHWH.” And Yeshua answered him “Blessed are you Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”
Now when Yeshua came to the district of Caesarea Philippi He asked His disciples “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?” And they said “Some say John the Baptist others say Elijah and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.”
Then the Pharisees and Sadducees came and to test Him they asked Him to show them a sign from heaven. He answered them “When it is evening you say ‘It will be fair weather for the sky is red’ and in the morning ‘It will be stormy today for the sky is red and threatening.’ You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.” So He left them and departed.
The disciples had forgotten to bring any bread. And Jesus said to them “Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” And they began discussing among themselves saying “We have no bread.” But Yeshua aware of this said “O you of little faith why are you discussing among yourselves that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand and how many baskets you gathered? Or the seven loaves for the four thousand and how many baskets you gathered? How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” Then they understood that He did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.

CH15

And sending away the crowds He got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over. Those who ate were four thousand men besides women and children.
Then Yeshua called His disciples to Him and said “I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry lest they faint on the way.” And the disciples said to Him “Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd?” And Yeshua said to them “How many loaves do you have?” They said “Seven and a few small fish.” And directing the crowd to sit down on the ground He took the seven loaves and the fish and having given thanks He broke them and gave them to the disciples and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
And great crowds came to Him bringing with them the lame the blind the crippled the mute and many others and they put them at His feet and He healed them so that the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking the crippled healthy the lame walking and the blind seeing. And they glorified the YHWH of Israel.
And departing from there Yeshua went along the Sea of Galilee. And He went up on the mountain and sat down there.
Then Yeshua answered her “O woman great is your faith! Be it done for you as you desire.” And her daughter was healed instantly.
But she came and knelt before Him saying “Lord help me.” And He answered “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.” She said “Yes Lord yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.”
But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and begged Him saying “Send her away for she is crying out after us.” He answered “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
And Yeshua went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying “Have mercy on me O Lord Son of David! My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon.”
Then the disciples came and said to Him “Do You know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?” He answered “Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up. Let them alone they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind both will fall into a pit.”
And He called the people to Him again and said to them “Hear and understand: it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person but what comes out of the mouth this defiles a person.”
Then Pharisees and scribes came to Yeshua from Jerusalem and said “Why do Your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat.” He answered them “And why do you break the commandment of YHWH for the sake of your tradition? For YHWH commanded ‘Honor your father and your mother’ and ‘Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.’ But you say ‘If anyone tells his father or his mother “What you would have gained from me is given to YHWH” he need not honor his father.’ So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of YHWH. You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you when he said ‘This people honors me with their lips but their heart is far from me in vain do they worship me teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’”

CH14

And when the men of that place recognized Him they sent around to all that region and brought to Him all who were sick and implored Him that they might only touch the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched it were made well.
And when they had crossed over they came to land at Gennesaret.
And those in the boat worshiped Him saying “Truly You are the Son of YHWH.”
And Peter answered Him “Lord if it is You command me to come to You on the water.” He said “Come.” So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Yeshua. But when he saw the wind he was afraid and beginning to sink he cried out “Lord save me!” Yeshua immediately reached out His hand and took hold of him saying to him “O you of little faith why did you doubt?” And when they got into the boat the wind ceased.
But when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea they were terrified and said “It is a ghost!” and they cried out in fear. But immediately Yeshua spoke to them saying “Take heart it is I. Do not be afraid.”
And in the fourth watch of the night He came to them walking on the sea. But the boat by this time was a long way from the land beaten by the waves for the wind was against them.
Immediately He made the disciples get into the boat and go before Him to the other side while He dismissed the crowds. And after He had dismissed the crowds He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray. When evening came He was there alone but the boat by this time was a long way from the land.
And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over. And those who ate were about five thousand men besides women and children.
And taking the five loaves and the two fish He looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then He broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Now when Yeshua heard this He withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by Himself. But when the crowds heard it they followed Him on foot from the towns. When He went ashore He saw a great crowd and He had compassion on them and healed their sick. Now when it was evening the disciples came to Him and said “This is a desolate place and the day is now over. Send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.” But Yeshua said to them “They need not go away. You give them something to eat.” They said to Him “We have only five loaves here and two fish.”
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Yeshua and he said to his servants “This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in Him.” For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias his brother Philip’s wife because John had been saying to him “It is not lawful for you to have her.” And though he wanted to put him to death he feared the people because they held him to be a prophet. But when Herod’s birthday came the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. Prompted by her mother she said “Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.” And the king was sorry but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given. He sent and had John beheaded in the prison and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl and she brought it to her mother. And his disciples came and took the body and buried it and they went and told Yeshua.

CH13

And they took offense at Him. But Yeshua said to them “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household.” And He did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief.
And when Yeshua had finished these parables He went away from there and coming to His hometown He taught them in their synagogue so that they were astonished and said “Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works? Is not this the carpenter’s son? Is not His mother called Mary? And are not His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? And are not all His sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?”
Again the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. When it was full men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers but threw away the bad. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Have you understood all these things? They said to Him “Yes.” And He said to them “Therefore every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old.”
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Again the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls who on finding one pearl of great value went and sold all that he had and bought it.
He put another parable before them saying “The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened.”
He put another parable before them saying “The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. It is the smallest of all seeds but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.”
He answered “The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age and the reapers are angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire so will it be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send His angels and they will gather out of His kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears let him hear.”
Then He left the crowds and went into the house. And His disciples came to Him saying “Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field.”
Then the disciples came and said to Him “Why do You speak to them in parables?” And He answered them “To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven but to them it has not been given. For to the one who has more will be given and he will have an abundance but from the one who has not even what he has will be taken away. This is why I speak to them in parables because seeing they do not see and hearing they do not hear nor do they understand. Indeed in their case the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says ‘You will indeed hear but never understand and you will indeed see but never perceive.’ For this people’s heart has grown dull and with their ears they can barely hear and their eyes they have closed lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn and I would heal them. But blessed are your eyes for they see and your ears for they hear. For truly I say to you many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see and did not see it and to hear what you hear and did not hear it.
Hear then the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path. As for what was sown on rocky ground this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy yet he has no root in himself but endures for a while and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word immediately he falls away. As for what was sown among thorns this is the one who hears the word but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word and it proves unfruitful. As for what was sown on good soil this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields in one case a hundredfold in another sixty and in another thirty.
That same day Yeshua went out of the house and sat beside the sea. And great crowds gathered about Him so that He got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach. And He told them many things in parables saying “A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed some seeds fell along the path and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground where they did not have much soil and immediately they sprang up since they had no depth of soil but when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root they withered away. Other seeds fell among thorns and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain some a hundredfold some sixty some thirty. He who has ears let him hear.”

CH12

For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.
While He was still speaking to the people behold His mother and brothers stood outside asking to speak to Him. But He replied to the man who told Him “Who is my mother and who are my brothers?” And stretching out His hand toward His disciples He said “Here are my mother and my brothers!”
When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person it passes through waterless places seeking rest but finds none. Then it says ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ And when it comes it finds the house empty swept and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself and they enter and dwell there and the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation.
The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it for they repented at the preaching of Jonah and behold something greater than Jonah is here. The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon and behold something greater than Solomon is here.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Him saying “Teacher we wish to see a sign from You.” But He answered them “An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”
He who is not with me is against me and he who does not gather with me scatters.
Either make the tree good and its fruit good or make the tree bad and its fruit bad for the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of vipers! How can you speak good when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. I tell you on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak for by your words you will be justified and by your words you will be condemned.
Then a demon-oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to Him and He healed him so that the man spoke and saw. And all the people were amazed and said “Can this be the Son of David?” But when the Pharisees heard it they said “It is only by Beelzebul the prince of demons that this man casts out demons.” Knowing their thoughts He said to them “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste and no city or house divided against itself will stand. And if Satan casts out Satan he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the Spirit of YHWH that I cast out demons then the kingdom of YHWH has come upon you.”
Then a demon-oppressed man who was blind and mute…
He is not with me he is against me…
While He was still speaking…
Behold my servant whom I have chosen…
And many followed Him and He healed them all and ordered them not to make Him known. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: “Behold my servant whom I have chosen my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my Spirit upon Him and He will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel or cry aloud nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets. A bruised reed He will not break and a smoldering wick He will not quench until He brings justice to victory and in His name the Gentiles will hope.”
But the Pharisees went out and conspired against Him how to destroy Him. Yeshua aware of this withdrew from there. And many followed Him and He healed them all…
He said to them “Have you not read what David did when he was hungry and those who were with him how he entered the house of YHWH and ate the bread of the Presence which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him but only for the priests? Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you something greater than the temple is here. And if you had known what this means ‘I desire mercy and not sacrifice’ you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.”
At that time Yeshua went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it they said to Him “Look Your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.”

CH11

Take my yoke upon you and learn from me for I am gentle and lowly in heart and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest.
All things have been handed over to me by my Father and no one knows the Son except the Father and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him.
I thank You Father Lord of heaven and earth that You have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes Father for such was Your gracious will.
Truly I say to you among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence and the violent take it by force. For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John and if you are willing to accept it he is Elijah who is to come. He who has ears to hear let him hear.
To what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates ‘We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn.’ For John came neither eating nor drinking and they say ‘He has a demon.’ The Son of Man came eating and drinking and they say ‘Look at Him a glutton and a drunkard a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds.
As they went away Yeshua began to speak to the crowds concerning John. “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold those who wear soft clothing are in kings’ houses. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes I tell you and more than a prophet.”
And when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Anointed he sent word by his disciples and said to Him “Are You the one who is to come or shall we look for another?” And Yeshua answered them “Go and tell John what you hear and see. The blind receive their sight and the lame walk lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear and the dead are raised up and the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.”
When Yeshua had finished instructing His twelve disciples He went on from there to teach and preach in their cities.

CH10

And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple truly I say to you he will by no means lose his reward. Whoever receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward and whoever receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person’s reward. Whoever receives you receives me and whoever receives me receives Him who sent me.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father and a daughter against her mother and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a person’s enemies will be those of his own household. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town. Truly I say to you it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town.
As you enter the house greet it. And if the house is worthy let your peace come upon it but if it is not worthy let your peace return to you. And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words…
Heal the sick raise the dead cleanse lepers cast out demons. You received without paying give without pay. Acquire no gold or silver or copper for your belts no bag for your journey or two tunics or sandals or a staff for the laborer deserves his food.
And proclaim as you go saying ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’
These twelve Yeshua sent out instructing them “Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of the Samaritans but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
And He called to Him His twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal every disease and every affliction. The names of the twelve apostles are these: first Simon who is called Peter and Andrew his brother James the son of Zebedee and John his brother Philip and Bartholomew Thomas and Matthew the tax collector James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddaeus Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot who betrayed Him.

CH9

And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When He saw the crowds He had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Then He said to His disciples “The harvest is plentiful but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest.”
And the report of this went through all that district.
And when the demon had been cast out the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled saying “Never was anything like this seen in Israel.” But the Pharisees said “He casts out demons by the prince of demons.”
As Jesus passed on from there two blind men followed Him crying aloud “Have mercy on us Son of David.” When He entered the house the blind men came to Him and Jesus said to them “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to Him “Yes Lord.” Then He touched their eyes saying “According to your faith be it done to you.” And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them “See that no one knows about this.” But they went away and spread His fame through all that district.
While He was saying these things a ruler came in and knelt before Him saying “My daughter has just died but come and lay Your hand on her and she will live.” And Jesus rose and followed him with His disciples. And behold a woman who had suffered from discharge of blood for twelve years came up behind Him and touched the fringe of His garment for she said to herself “If I only touch His garment I will be made well.” Jesus turned and seeing her He said “Take heart daughter your faith has made you well.” And instantly the woman was made well. And when Jesus came to the ruler’s house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion He said “Go away for the girl is not dead but sleeping.” And they laughed at Him. But when the crowd had been put outside He went in and took her by the hand and the girl arose. And the report of this went through all that district.
And as Jesus reclined at table in the house behold many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and His disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this they said to His disciples “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?” But when He heard it He said “Those who are well have no need of a physician but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means ‘I desire mercy and not sacrifice.’ For I came not to call the righteous but sinners.”
As Jesus passed on from there He saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth and He said to him “Follow me.” And he rose and followed Him.
And getting into a boat He crossed over and came to His own city.
And Jesus said to them “Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them and then they will fast. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment for the patch tears away from the garment and a worse tear is made. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins and so both are preserved.”
Then the disciples of John came to Him saying “Why do we and the Pharisees fast but Your disciples do not fast?”
And as Jesus reclined at table in the house…

CH8

And those who had seen it told them what had happened to the demon-possessed men and to the pigs. And behold all the city came out to meet Yeshua and when they saw Him they begged Him to leave their region.
And the demons begged Him saying “If You cast us out send us away into the herd of pigs.” And He said to them “Go.” So they came out and went into the pigs and behold the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters.
And when He came to the other side to the country of the Gadarenes two demon-possessed men met Him coming out of the tombs so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold they cried out “What have You to do with us O Son of YHWH? Have You come here to torment us before the time?”
And when He got into the boat His disciples followed Him. And behold there arose a great storm on the sea so that the boat was being swamped by the waves but He was asleep. And they went and woke Him saying “Save us Lord we are perishing.” And He said to them “Why are you afraid O you of little faith?” Then He rose and rebuked the winds and the sea and there was a great calm. And the men marveled saying “What sort of man is this that even winds and sea obey Him?”
Now when Yeshua saw a crowd around Him He gave orders to go over to the other side. And a scribe came up and said to Him “Teacher I will follow You wherever You go.” And Yeshua said to him “Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.” Another of the disciples said to Him “Lord let me first go and bury my father.” But Yeshua said to him “Follow me and leave the dead to bury their own dead.”
And when Yeshua entered Peter’s house He saw his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever. He touched her hand and the fever left her and she rose and began to serve Him. That evening they brought to Him many who were oppressed by demons and He cast out the spirits with a word and healed all who were sick. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah “He took our illnesses and bore our diseases.”
When He came down from the mountain great crowds followed Him. And behold a leper came to Him and knelt before Him saying “Lord if You will You can make me clean.” And Yeshua stretched out His hand and touched him saying “I will be clean.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Yeshua said to him “See that you say nothing to anyone but go show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a proof to them.”

CH7

Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat on that house but it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat against that house and it fell and great was the fall of it.
Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep’s clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.
Not everyone who says to me ‘Lord Lord’ will enter the kingdom of heaven but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me ‘Lord Lord did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name?’ And then will I declare to them ‘I never knew you. Depart from me you workers of lawlessness.’
Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life and those who find it are few.
Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives and the one who seeks finds and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you if his son asks him for bread will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish will give him a serpent? If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask Him? So whatever you wish that others would do to you do also to them for this is the Law and the Prophets.
Judge not that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye’ when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite first take the log out of your own eye and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye. Do not give dogs what is holy and do not throw your pearls before pigs lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.

CH6

Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
But seek first the kingdom of YHWH and His righteousness and all these things will be added to you.
And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow. They neither toil nor spin yet I tell you even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if YHWH so clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven will He not much more clothe you O you of little faith? Therefore do not be anxious saying ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the Gentiles seek after all these things and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
No one can serve two masters for either he will hate the one and love the other or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve YHWH and money.
Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is there your heart will be also.
The eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy your whole body will be full of light but if your eye is bad your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness how great is the darkness!
For the Gentiles seek after all these things…
And do not fear those who kill the body…
Do not be anxious about your life what you will eat or what you will drink nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?
And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
But when you fast anoint your head and wash your face that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
And when you pray you must not be like the hypocrites for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you they have received their reward. But when you pray go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
And when you pray do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him. Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil.
Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus when you give to the needy sound no trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.

CH5

You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?
You have heard that it was said ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I say to you love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.
Let what you say be simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. Anything more than this comes from evil.
You have heard that it was said to those of old ‘You shall not swear falsely but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.’ But I say to you do not swear at all either by heaven for it is the throne of YHWH or by the earth for it is His footstool or by Jerusalem for it is the city of the great King. And do not swear by your head for you cannot make one hair white or black.
It was also said ‘Whoever divorces his wife let him give her a certificate of divorce.’ But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except on the ground of sexual immorality makes her commit adultery and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
You have heard that it was said ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell.
You have heard that it was said to those of old ‘You shall not murder and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.’ But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council and whoever says ‘You fool!’ will be liable to the hell of fire. So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court lest your accuser hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard and you be put in prison. Truly I say to you you will never get out until you have paid the last penny.
Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you until heaven and earth pass away not an iota not a dot will pass from the Law until all is accomplished. Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket but on a stand and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.
You are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything but is thrown out and trampled under people’s feet.
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad for your reward is great in heaven for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called sons of YHWH. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see YHWH. Blessed are those who mourn for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Seeing the crowds He went up on the mountain and when He sat down His disciples came to Him. And He opened His mouth and taught them saying…

CH4

So His fame spread throughout all Syria and they brought Him all the sick those afflicted with various diseases and torments those oppressed by demons epileptics and paralytics and He healed them. And great crowds followed Him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan.
And He went throughout all Galilee teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people.
From that time Yeshua began to preach saying “Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”
And leaving Nazareth He went and lived in Capernaum by the sea in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali the way of the sea beyond the Jordan Galilee of the Gentiles — the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death on them a light has dawned.”
Now when He heard that John had been arrested He withdrew into Galilee.
Then the devil left Him and behold angels came and were ministering to Him.
Then Yeshua said to him “Be gone Satan! For it is written ‘You shall worship YHWH your YHWH and Him only shall you serve.’”
Again the devil took Him to a very high mountain and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to Him “All these I will give You if You will fall down and worship me.” Then Yeshua said to him “Be gone Satan! For it is written…”
Then the devil took Him to the holy city and set Him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to Him “If You are the Son of YHWH throw Yourself down for it is written ‘He will command His angels concerning You’ and ‘On their hands they will bear You up lest You strike Your foot against a stone.’” Yeshua said to him “Again it is written ‘You shall not put YHWH your YHWH to the test.’”
And the tempter came and said to Him “If You are the Son of YHWH command these stones to become loaves of bread.” But He answered “It is written ‘Man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that comes from the mouth of YHWH.’”
Then Yeshua was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights He was hungry.
Now when Yeshua heard that John had been arrested He withdrew into Galilee. And leaving Nazareth He went and lived in Capernaum by the sea…
While walking by the Sea of Galilee He saw two brothers Simon who is called Peter and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea for they were fishermen. And He said to them “Follow me and I will make you fishers of men.” Immediately they left their nets and followed Him. And going on from there He saw two other brothers James the son of Zebedee and John his brother in the boat with Zebedee their father mending their nets and He called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed Him.

CH3

And behold a voice from heaven said “This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased.”
And when Yeshua was baptized immediately He went up from the water and behold the heavens were opened to Him and He saw the Spirit of YHWH descending like a dove and coming to rest on Him.
Then Yeshua came from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be baptized by him. John would have prevented Him saying “I need to be baptized by You and do You come to me?” But Yeshua answered him “Let it be so now for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he consented.
I baptize you with water for repentance but He who is coming after me is mightier than I whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in His hand and He will clear His threshing floor and gather His wheat into the barn but the chaff He will burn with unquenchable fire.
Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume to say to yourselves ‘We have Abraham as our father’ for I tell you YHWH is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism he said to them “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?”
Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan confessing their sins.
Now John wore a garment of camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist and his food was locusts and wild honey.
In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea “Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said “The voice of one crying in the wilderness ‘Prepare the way of the Lord make His paths straight.’”

CH2

And He went and lived in a city called Nazareth so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled that He would be called a Nazarene.
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod he was afraid to go there and being warned in a dream he withdrew to the district of Galilee. And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth.
And when they had departed behold an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said “Rise take the child and His mother and go to the land of Israel for those who sought the child’s life are dead.” And he rose and took the child and His mother and went to the land of Israel.
And he rose and took the child and His mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet “Out of Egypt I called my Son.”
Then Herod when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men became furious and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah: “A voice was heard in Ramah weeping and loud lamentation Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they are no more.”
And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod they departed to their own country by another way.
And going into the house they saw the child with Mary His mother and they fell down and worshiped Him. Then opening their treasures they offered Him gifts gold and frankincense and myrrh.
After listening to the king they went on their way. And behold the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people he inquired of them where the Anointed was to be born. They told him “In Bethlehem of Judea for so it is written by the prophet ‘And you O Bethlehem in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.’”
And he sent them to Bethlehem saying “Go and search diligently for the child and when you have found Him bring me word that I too may come and worship Him.”
Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared.
Now after Yeshua was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king behold wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying “Where is He who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw His star when it rose and have come to worship Him.”

CH1

The book of the genealogy of Yeshua the Anointed the son of David the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac Isaac the father of Jacob Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar Perez the father of Hezron Hezron the father of Ram Ram the father of Amminadab Amminadab the father of Nahshon Nahshon the father of Salmon Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth Obed the father of Jesse and Jesse the father of David the king. David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah Solomon the father of Rehoboam Rehoboam the father of Abijah Abijah the father of Asa Asa the father of Jehoshaphat Jehoshaphat the father of Joram Joram the father of Uzziah Uzziah the father of Jotham Jotham the father of Ahaz Ahaz the father of Hezekiah Hezekiah the father of Manasseh Manasseh the father of Amos Amos the father of Josiah and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. And after the deportation to Babylon Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel Zerubbabel the father of Abiud Abiud the father of Eliakim Eliakim the father of Azor Azor the father of Zadok Zadok the father of Achim Achim the father of Eliud Eliud the father of Eleazar Eleazar the father of Matthan Matthan the father of Jacob and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary of whom Yeshua was born who is called the Anointed. So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations and from the deportation to Babylon to the Anointed fourteen generations.
Now the birth of Yeshua the Anointed took place in this way. When His mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things behold an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream saying “Joseph son of David do not fear to take Mary as your wife for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son and you shall call His name Yeshua for He will save His people from their sins.” All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet “Behold the virgin shall conceive and bear a son and they shall call His name Immanuel” which means YHWH with us. When Joseph woke from sleep he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took Mary as his wife but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called His name Yeshua.
