PHILIPPIANS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


CH4

The grace of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with your spirit.
All the saints greet you especially those of Caesar’s household.
I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. Not that I speak of being in need for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger abundance and need. I can do all things through Him who strengthens me.
It was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel when I left Macedonia no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving except you only. Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. I have received full payment and more. I am well supplied having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent a fragrant offering a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to YHWH. And my YHWH will supply every need of yours according to His riches in glory in the Anointed Yeshua. To our YHWH and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Greet every saint in the Anointed Yeshua. The brothers who are with me greet you.
I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord. Yes I ask you also true companion help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to YHWH. And the peace of YHWH which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in the Anointed Yeshua.
Finally brothers whatever is true whatever is honorable whatever is just whatever is pure whatever is lovely whatever is commendable if there is any excellence if there is anything worthy of praise think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me — practice these things and the YHWH of peace will be with you.

CH3

But our citizenship is in heaven and from it we await a Savior the Lord Yeshua the Anointed who will transform our lowly body to be like His glorious body by the power that enables Him even to subject all things to Himself.
Brothers join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears walk as enemies of the cross of the Anointed. Their end is destruction their god is their belly and they glory in their shame with minds set on earthly things.
Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect but I press on to make it my own because the Anointed Yeshua has made me His own. Brothers I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of YHWH in the Anointed Yeshua. Let those of us who are mature think this way and if in anything you think otherwise YHWH will reveal that also to you. Only let us hold true to what we have attained.
That I may know Him and the power of His resurrection and may share His sufferings becoming like Him in His death that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
Indeed I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing the Anointed Yeshua my Lord. For His sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain the Anointed and be found in Him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law but that which comes through faith in the Anointed the righteousness from YHWH that depends on faith.
Look out for the dogs look out for the evildoers look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of YHWH and glory in the Anointed Yeshua and put no confidence in the flesh — though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh I have more: circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin a Hebrew of Hebrews as to the law a Pharisee as to zeal a persecutor of the church as to righteousness under the law blameless. But whatever gain I had I counted as loss for the sake of the Anointed.
Finally my brothers rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you.

CH2

Receive him then in the Lord with all joy and honor such men for he nearly died for the work of the Anointed risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me.
I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me and I trust in the Lord that I myself will come soon also. I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier and your messenger and minister to my need for he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill. Indeed he was ill near to death but YHWH had mercy on him and not only on him but on me also lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
For I have no one like him who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare. For they all seek their own interests not those of Yeshua the Anointed. But you know Timothy’s proven worth how as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel.
I hope in the Lord Yeshua to send Timothy to you soon so that I too may be cheered by news of you.
Do all things without grumbling or disputing that you may be blameless and innocent children of YHWH without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you shine as lights in the world holding fast to the word of life so that in the day of the Anointed I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.
Therefore my beloved as you have always obeyed so now not only as in my presence but much more in my absence work out your own salvation with fear and trembling for it is YHWH who works in you both to will and to work for His good pleasure.
So that at the name of Yeshua every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth and every tongue confess that Yeshua the Anointed is Lord to the glory of YHWH the Father.
Therefore YHWH has highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name that is above every name.
And being found in human form He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death even death on a cross.
Who though He was in the form of YHWH did not count equality with YHWH a thing to be grasped but emptied Himself taking the form of a servant being born in the likeness of men.
Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in the Anointed Yeshua.
Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests but also to the interests of others.
So if there is any encouragement in the Anointed any comfort from love any participation in the Spirit any affection and sympathy complete my joy by being of the same mind having the same love being in full accord and of one mind.

CH1

It is right for me to feel this way about you all because I hold you in my heart for you are all partakers with me of grace both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For YHWH is my witness how I yearn for you all with the affection of the Anointed Yeshua. And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment so that you may approve what is excellent and so be pure and blameless for the day of the Anointed filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Yeshua the Anointed to the glory and praise of YHWH.
I thank my YHWH in all my remembrance of you always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. And I am sure of this that He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Yeshua the Anointed.
Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Paul and Timothy servants of the Anointed Yeshua to all the saints in the Anointed Yeshua who are at Philippi with the overseers and deacons.
