PHILEMON 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Masoretic/Septuagint tradition with YHWH framework.


The grace of the Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with your spirit.
I Paul write this with my own hand I will repay it — to say nothing of your owing me even your own self. Yes brother I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in the Anointed.
Confident of your obedience I write to you knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time prepare a guest room for me for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
I appeal to you for my child Onesimus whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me so that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own accord.
For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while that you might have him back forever no longer as a bondservant but more than a bondservant as a beloved brother — especially to me but how much more to you both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Accordingly though I am bold enough in the Anointed to command you to do what is required yet for love’s sake I prefer to appeal to you — I Paul an old man and now a prisoner also for the Anointed Yeshua. I appeal to you for my child Onesimus.
I thank my YHWH always when I remember you in my prayers because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Yeshua and for all the saints and I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of the Anointed. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love my brother because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you.
Paul a prisoner for the Anointed Yeshua and Timothy our brother to Philemon our beloved fellow worker and Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier and the church in your house. Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
