PSALMS
100-51

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.

PSALM 100

For YHWH is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. Know ye that YHWH he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Serve YHWH with gladness: come before his presence with singing. Make a joyful noise unto YHWH, all ye lands.

PSALM 99

Exalt ye YHWH our God, and worship at his holy hill; for YHWH our God is holy. Thou answeredst them, O YHWH our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions. He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them. Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon YHWH, and he answered them. Exalt ye YHWH our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy. The king’s strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob. Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy. YHWH is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people. YHWH reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved.

PSALM 98

Before YHWH; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity. Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together. Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before YHWH, the King. Sing unto YHWH with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm. Make a joyful noise unto YHWH, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise. He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. YHWH hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen. O sing unto YHWH a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.

PSALM 97

Rejoice in YHWH, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. Ye that love YHWH, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. For thou, YHWH, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods. Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O YHWH. Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods. The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. The hills melted like wax at the presence of YHWH, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled. A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about. Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne. YHWH reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.

PSALM 96

Before YHWH: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice. Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein. Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad. Say among the heathen that YHWH reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously. O worship YHWH in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth. Give unto YHWH the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts. Give unto YHWH, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto YHWH glory and strength. Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. For all the gods of the nations are idols: but YHWH made the heavens. For YHWH is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. Sing unto YHWH, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day. O sing unto YHWH a new song: sing unto YHWH, all the earth.

PSALM 95

Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest. Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways: When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness: To day if ye will hear his voice. For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before YHWH our maker. The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land. In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also. For YHWH is a great God, and a great King above all gods. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. O come, let us sing unto YHWH: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.

PSALM 94

And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, YHWH shall cut off the wicked. But YHWH is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge. They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. They break in pieces thy people, O YHWH, and afflict thine heritage. Yet they say, YHWH shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it. Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise? He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see? He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know? YHWH knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity. Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O YHWH, and teachest him out of thy law; That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked. For YHWH will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. For judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it. Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? Unless YHWH had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence. When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O YHWH, held me up. In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul. Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law? They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. O YHWH God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself. Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud. YHWH God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.

PSALM 93

Holiness becometh thine house, O YHWH, for ever. Thy testimonies are very sure. The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea. The floods have lifted up their waves; the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods have lifted up, O YHWH. Thou art from everlasting; thy throne is established of old. The world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved. YHWH is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself. YHWH reigneth, he is clothed with majesty.

PSALM 92

To shew that YHWH is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing; Those that be planted in the house of YHWH shall flourish in the courts of our God. The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me. But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil. For, lo, thine enemies, O YHWH, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. But thou, YHWH, art most high for evermore. When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever: A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this. O YHWH, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep. For thou, YHWH, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands. Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound. To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night. It is a good thing to give thanks unto YHWH, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High.

PSALM 91

With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. Because thou hast made YHWH, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation; Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. I will say of YHWH, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.

PSALM 90

And let the beauty of YHWH our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil. O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Return, O YHWH, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth. Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up. For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night. Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. YHWH, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.

PSALM 89

Blessed be YHWH for evermore. Amen, and Amen. Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people; Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O YHWH; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. How long, YHWH? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire? Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth? Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain? What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah. O YHWH, wherefore castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me? But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed. Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin. All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours. Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice. Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle. Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground. The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah. But thou hast cast off and abhorred… My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me. It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah. Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people. I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him: With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him. The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him. And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break… Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand. Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O YHWH, in the light of thy countenance. In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted. For YHWH is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king. Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one… O YHWH God of hosts, who is a strong YHWH like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee? Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm. The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them. The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name. Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand… O YHWH God of hosts, who is a strong YHWH like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee? Thou rulest the raging of the sea… And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O YHWH: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints. For who in the heaven can be compared unto YHWH? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto YHWH? God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him. O YHWH God of hosts, who is a strong YHWH like unto thee?… I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah. And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O YHWH… I will sing of the mercies of YHWH for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.

PSALM 88

Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine acquaintance into darkness. They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together. Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off. I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distracted. YHWH, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me? But unto thee have I cried, O YHWH; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee. Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction? Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah. Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: YHWH, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee. Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth. Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah. Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps. Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand. I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength: For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave. Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry. O YHWH God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee.

PSALM 87

All my springs are in thee. As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in thee. The LORD shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah. And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her. I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there. Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah. The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob. His foundation is in the holy mountains.

PSALM 86

Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, YHWH, hast holpen me, and comforted me. O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid. But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them. For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore. Teach me thy way, O YHWH; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name. For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God alone. All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name. Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are there any works like unto thy works. In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me. Give ear, O YHWH, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications. For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily. Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee. Bow down thine ear, O YHWH, hear me: for I am poor and needy.

PSALM 85

Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps. Yea, YHWH shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase. Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land. I will hear what God YHWH will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly. Shew us thy mercy, O YHWH, and grant us thy salvation. Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee? Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah. YHWH, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob.

PSALM 84

For YHWH God is a sun and shield: YHWH will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O YHWH of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah. Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O YHWH of hosts, my King, and my God. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O YHWH of hosts! My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of YHWH: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.

PSALM 83

That men may know that thou, whose name alone is YHWH, art the most high over all the earth. Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish: Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O YHWH. So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire; O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind. Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna: Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth. Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison: Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah. Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre; The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes; For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee: They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones. For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.

PSALM 82

Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations. I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High. But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes. They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course. How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah. Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked. They know not, neither will they understand… God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods.

PSALM 81

So I gave them up unto their own hearts’ lust: and they walked in their own counsels. Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways! I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries. The haters of YHWH should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever. He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee. But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me. There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god. I am YHWH thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah. I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots. This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not. Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery. Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day. For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.

PSALM 80

Turn us again, O YHWH God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself. It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself. Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine. The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it. Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her? She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river. The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars. Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it. Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves. Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure. O YHWH God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.

PSALM 79

So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations. And we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name’s sake. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? Let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed. Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die. Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name. For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place. O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? Let the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed be known among the heathen in our sight. Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee. Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee. For they have devoured Jacob. O remember not against us former iniquities. We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. We are filled with the bread of tears. The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth. Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them. The heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps. O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance.

PSALM 78

So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands. He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds: From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance. He refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim: But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved. And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever. Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph… Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine. And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach. Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies: For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works. Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble. When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God. And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer. Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues. For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant. But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath. For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again. How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert! They turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel. They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy. How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan: And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink. He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them. He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust. He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost. He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them. He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence; And smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham: But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased. He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents. Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God… They remembered not his hand… Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan. He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap. In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths. He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers. And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness. And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust. Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people? Therefore YHWH heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel; Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation: Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven, And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven. Man did eat angels’ food: he sent them meat to the full. He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind. He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea: And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations. So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire; They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths, The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel. For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works. Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble. When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God… How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness… They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy. How he had wrought his signs in Egypt… Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers… That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments: And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God. The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle. They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law; And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them. For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children: That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children. Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old: Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

PSALM 77

Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known. The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook. The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad. The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled. Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people. Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God? I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings. I will remember the works of YHWH: surely I will remember thy wonders of old. And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High. Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah. Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore? Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more? I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search. I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times. Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak. I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah. In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted. I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.

PSALM 76

He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth. Vow, and pay unto YHWH your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah. Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still, Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry? At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep. The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands. Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey. There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah. In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion. In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.

PSALM 75

All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. For in the hand of YHWH there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them. I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn: Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck. When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly. The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah. For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south. But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another. We give thanks unto thee, O God, we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare. Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks.

PSALM 74

O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever? Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom. For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness. Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers. Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter. Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O YHWH, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name. Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually. O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever. Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty. Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily. Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary. Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs. A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees. But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers. They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground. They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land. We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long. O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

PSALM 73

But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord YHWH, that I may declare all thy works. For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee. My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever. Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee. But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped. For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked… So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee. Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction. How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors. As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image. Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins. For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish. They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High? Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency. For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning. If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me; Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end… But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped. For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.

PSALM 72

The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen. Blessed be YHWH God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised. He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight. He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy. For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper. Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth. He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth. They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations. He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor. The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness. He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment. Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king’s son.

PSALM 71

My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt. O God, who is like unto thee! Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth. Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side. Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth. Now also when I am old and grayheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come. Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee! I will go in the strength of the Lord YHWH: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only. O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. For thou art my hope, O Lord YHWH: thou art my trust from my youth. By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother’s bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee. Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. For thou art my hope, O Lord YHWH… In thee, O YHWH, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion. Let me never be put to confusion.

PSALM 70

But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O YHWH, make no tarrying. Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified. Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha. Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt. Make haste, O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O YHWH.

PSALM 69

The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein. For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high. I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. This also shall please YHWH better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs. The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God. For YHWH heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners. Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein. For the Lord heareth the poor… Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents. Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness. Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous. They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away. They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none. Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap. Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them. Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake. Let their eyes be darkened… I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother’s children. For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me. When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach. I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them. They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards. But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O YHWH, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation. Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters. Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me. Hear me, O YHWH; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily. Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies. Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee. Reproach hath broken my heart… Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul. I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

PSALM 68

Blessed be God. O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary. The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels. Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel. Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us. Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee. Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war. Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah: To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice. Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds. Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them. Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah. The God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God. Thy God hath commanded thy strength… They have seen thy goings, O God… The singers went before… Bless ye God in the congregations… Thy God hath commanded thy strength… Because of thy temple at Jerusalem… Rebuke the company of spearmen… Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth… To him that rideth upon the heavens… Ascribe ye strength unto God… Thou hast ascended on high… Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us… The God of Israel is he… Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive… Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel… To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens… Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth… Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls… Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents… Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God… Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord… The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after… They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary… The God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people… Blessed be God. O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places…

PSALM 67

God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us. Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee. O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah. Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee. That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations. God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us; Selah.

PSALM 66

Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me: I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul. I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah. Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble. I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows. But thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place. Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water. Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins. For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried. Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved. O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard. Selah. Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations. There did we rejoice in him. They went through the flood on foot: he turned the sea into dry land. Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men. All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name. Selah. Through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee. Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious. Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands.

PSALM 65

The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing. They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side. Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness. Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof. Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it. They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people. Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power: By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea: Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple. Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away. O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.

PSALM 64

The righteous shall be glad in YHWH, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory. And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing. So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away. But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded. They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep. They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them? That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words. Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity. Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.

PSALM 63

But the king shall rejoice in YHWH; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes. But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth. My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me. Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches. My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name. Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee. To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary. O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is.

PSALM 62

Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work. God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God. Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them. Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity. God is a refuge for us. Selah. Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him. In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God. He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved. My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him. They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence. He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved. Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.

PSALM 61

I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah. For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name. Thou wilt prolong the king’s life: and his years as many generations. He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy. Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.

PSALM 60

Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies? Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; Philistia, triumph thou because of me. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver. I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment. Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh. O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.

PSALM 59

But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble. Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy. Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah. And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied. So they return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak. Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield. For they lie in wait for my soul, the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O YHWH. They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold. Thou therefore, O YHWH God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah. They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence. Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O YHWH. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me. Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.

PSALM 58

The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth. Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath. The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies. Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O YHWH. As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun. Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of YHWH chase them. Let them be as a snail which melteth… They have sharpened their tongues like a sword; they bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words: That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men? Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth. The wicked are estranged from the womb…

PSALM 57

Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth. For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations. Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early. My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise. They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above all the earth. My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword. He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all things for me. Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpast.

PSALM 56

For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living? Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee. In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me. In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his word. When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me. Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book? Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the people, O God. They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul. Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil. In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O thou most High. Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me.

PSALM 55

But I will trust in thee. Cast thy burden upon YHWH, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords. For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him: But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in company. Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them. Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city. Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it. Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets. For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah. Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me. My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me. And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest. Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest. Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication. Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise.

PSALM 54

For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies. I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O YHWH; for it is good. He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy truth. Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul. For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah. Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.

PSALM 53

Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee; thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them. Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God. Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one. God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good.

PSALM 52

I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints. But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever. Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness. The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him. God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of YHWH endureth continually.

PSALM 51

Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering. O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise. Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit. Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me. Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me. Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me. Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me. Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.
