PSALMS

151-101

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscript with YHWH framework.

PSALM 151

This psalm is autographic. And it was written when David fought in single combat with Goliath. I was the youngest among my brothers, and the youngest in my father’s house. I tended my father’s sheep. My hands made a pipe, and my fingers a lyre. And who will declare to my Lord? He is YHWH, he hears. He sent his messenger and took me from my father’s sheep, and anointed me with his anointing oil. My brothers were handsome and tall, but YHWH took no pleasure in them. I went out to meet the Philistine, and he cursed me by his idols. But I drew his own sword and cut off his head, and took away the reproach from the children of Israel.

PSALM 150

Let everything that has breath praise YHWH. Praise YHWH. Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs. Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp. Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 149

This honour have all his saints. Praise ye YHWH. To execute upon them the judgment written: to bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron; To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people; Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a twoedged sword in their hand; Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds. For YHWH taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation. Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp. Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. Sing unto YHWH a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 148

He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye YHWH. Let them praise the name of YHWH: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven. Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children: Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth: Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl: Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars: Fire, and hail; snow, and vapour; stormy wind fulfilling his word: Praise the YHWH from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps. He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass. Let them praise the name of YHWH: for he commanded, and they were created. Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens. Praise him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light. Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts. Praise ye YHWH from the heavens: praise him in the heights. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 147

He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye YHWH. He hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee. He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly. He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold? He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow. He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names. Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite. YHWH lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground. Sing unto YHWH with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God: Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains. He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds. YHWH doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. Praise ye YHWH: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely. The YHWH taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.

PSALM 146

The YHWH shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye YHWH. The YHWH preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down. The YHWH loveth the righteous: The YHWH raiseth them that are bowed down: the YHWH openeth the eyes of the blind: the YHWH looseth the prisoners: Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever: Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the YHWH his God: His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish. Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help. While I live will I praise the YHWH: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being. Praise ye the YHWH. Praise the YHWH, O my soul.

PSALM 145

My mouth shall speak the praise of YHWH: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever. The YHWH preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy. He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them. The YHWH is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. The YHWH is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works. Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season. The YHWH upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power. All thy works shall praise thee, O YHWH; and thy saints shall bless thee. The YHWH is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works. The YHWH is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy. They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness. And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness. I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works. One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. Great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable. Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.

PSALM 144

Happy is that people, whose God is YHWH. Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood. That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace. That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets. That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets. Deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood. Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them. Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword. Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away. Bow thy heavens, O YHWH, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. Blessed be YHWH my strength, which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight.

PSALM 143

For I am thy servant. And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul. For thy name’s sake, O YHWH, quicken me: for thy righteousness’ sake bring my soul out of trouble. Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness. Deliver me, O YHWH, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee. Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. Quick, O YHWH, answer me: my spirit faileth. I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands. Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate. For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead. And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. Hear my prayer, O YHWH, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness. And in thy righteousness shall thou judge me.

PSALM 142

Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I. I cried unto thee, O YHWH: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble. I cried unto YHWH with my voice; with my voice unto YHWH did I make my supplication.

PSALM 141

Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape. Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity. But mine eyes are unto thee, O YHWH my Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute. Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth. When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet. Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities. Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties. Set a watch, O YHWH, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips. Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. YHWH, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee.

PSALM 140

Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him. Grant not, O YHWH, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah. As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again. Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let strangers spoil his labour. I know that YHWH will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor. Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence. Keep me, O YHWH, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings. They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their lips. Selah. For they have privily shot at me; the proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah. Deliver me, O YHWH, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man. Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war. They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their lips. Selah.

PSALM 139

Search me, O YHWH, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts: And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Do not I hate them, O YHWH, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies. How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee. If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee. My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. My frame was not hidden from thee, when I was made in secret. For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother’s womb. I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it. Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O YHWH, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast searched me, and known me.

PSALM 138

Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. YHWH will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O YHWH, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands. All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O YHWH, when they hear the words of thy mouth. Yea, they shall sing in the ways of YHWH: for great is the glory of YHWH. Though the YHWH be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off. In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul. I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name. I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.

PSALM 137

Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones. O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us. Remember, O YHWH, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy. If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning. How shall we sing the song of YHWH in a strange land? For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.

PSALM 136

For his mercy endureth for ever. Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever. Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever. And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever. And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever. And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever. Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him which smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever. The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever. The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever. With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever. With a strong hand and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever. And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever. And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever. Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever. Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever. And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever. Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks unto the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever. O give thanks unto YHWH; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.

PSALM 135

Blessed be YHWH out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye YHWH. Thy name, O YHWH, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O YHWH, throughout all generations. For YHWH will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants. The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands. They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not; They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths. They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them. O house of Levi, bless ye YHWH: ye that fear YHWH, bless ye YHWH. Bless YHWH, O house of Israel: bless YHWH, O house of Aaron. Bless YHWH, O house of Levi. YHWH hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure. For I know that YHWH is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. Whatsoever YHWH pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places. He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries. Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast. Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings; Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan: And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people. He smote the firstborn of Egypt. Who brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him that led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever. To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever. Praise ye the name of YHWH; praise him, O ye servants of YHWH. Ye that stand in the house of YHWH, in the courts of the house of our God. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 134

The YHWH that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless YHWH. Behold, bless ye YHWH, all ye servants of YHWH, which by night stand in the house of YHWH.

PSALM 133

For there YHWH commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion. It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!

PSALM 132

For thy servant David’s sake turn not away the face of thine anointed. For YHWH hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation. This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it. Arise, O YHWH, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength. Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy. For thy servant David’s sake turn not away the face of thine anointed. The YHWH hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore. For the YHWH hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation. This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it. Arise, O YHWH, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength. Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy. Remember David, O YHWH, and all his afflictions: How he sware unto YHWH, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob; Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed; I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids, Until I find out a place for YHWH, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood. We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.

PSALM 131

Let Israel hope in YHWH from henceforth and for ever. Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child. YHWH, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.

PSALM 130

O Israel, hope in YHWH: for with YHWH there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption. And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. If thou, YHWH, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. I wait for YHWH, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning. Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O YHWH. Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.

PSALM 129

Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of YHWH be upon you: we bless you in the name of YHWH. Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up: Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom. Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion. The YHWH is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked. The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say.

PSALM 128

Yea, thou shalt see thy children’s children, and peace upon Israel. The YHWH shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth YHWH. Thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house. For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Blessed is every one that feareth YHWH; that walketh in his ways.

PSALM 127

Lo, children are an heritage of YHWH: and the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep. Except YHWH build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except YHWH keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.

PSALM 126

They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Turn again our captivity, O YHWH, as the streams in the south. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The YHWH hath done great things for them. The YHWH hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad. When YHWH turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.

PSALM 125

Peace shall be upon Israel. Do good, O YHWH, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts. As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, YHWH shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel. They that trust in YHWH shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever. As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so YHWH is round about his people from henceforth even for ever. For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.

PSALM 124

Our help is in the name of YHWH, who made heaven and earth. Blessed be YHWH, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth. We are escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped. Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul: Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. If it had not been YHWH who was on our side, when men rose up against us; If it had not been YHWH who was on our side, now may Israel say. If YHWH had not been on our side.

PSALM 123

Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud. Have mercy upon us, O YHWH, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt. Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon YHWH our God, until that he have mercy upon us. Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.

PSALM 122

Because of the house of YHWH our God I will seek thy good. For my brethren and companions’ sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of YHWH, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of YHWH. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together: Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of YHWH.

PSALM 121

The YHWH shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore. The YHWH shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The YHWH is thy keeper: the YHWH is thy shade upon thy right hand. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. My help cometh from YHWH, which made heaven and earth. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.

PSALM 120

Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar! My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war. What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper. Deliver my soul, O YHWH, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue. In my distress I cried unto YHWH, and he heard me.

PSALM 119

Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me. I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments. Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts. I have longed for thy salvation, O YHWH; and thy law is my delight. Let my cry come near before thee, O YHWH: give me understanding according to thy word. My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes. Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness. Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever. I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end. I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments. Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart. I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts. The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight. Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed. Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word. Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word. It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. I know, O YHWH, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it. Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth. Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live. Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them. The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me. I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight. Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed. Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word. Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word. It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. I know, O YHWH, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it. Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth. Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live. Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them. The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me. I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight. Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed. Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word. Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word. It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. I know, O YHWH, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it. Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth. Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.

PSALM 118

Give thanks unto YHWH; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of YHWH: we have blessed you out of the house of YHWH. God is YHWH, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee. I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner. This is the day which YHWH hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O YHWH: O YHWH, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of YHWH. Bind the sacrifice with cords. God is YHWH, which hath shewed us light. Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but YHWH helped me. The YHWH is my strength and song, and is become my salvation. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of YHWH doeth valiantly. The right hand of YHWH is exalted: the right hand of YHWH doeth valiantly. I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of YHWH. YHWH hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death. Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise YHWH. This gate of YHWH, into which the righteous shall enter. I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me. The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner. This is the YHWH’s doing; it is marvellous in our eyes. The YHWH is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me? It is better to trust in YHWH than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in YHWH than to put confidence in princes. All nations compassed me about: but in the name of YHWH will I destroy them. They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of YHWH I will destroy them. They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of YHWH I will destroy them. Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but YHWH helped me. The YHWH is my strength and song, and is become my salvation. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous. I called upon YHWH in distress: YHWH answered me, and set me in a large place. Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever. Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever. Let them now that fear YHWH say, that his mercy endureth for ever. I called upon YHWH in distress. Out of my straits I called upon YHWH: YHWH answered me. All nations compassed me about. The YHWH is on my side. This is the day which YHWH hath made. The stone which the builders refused. Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will praise thee. The right hand of YHWH doeth valiantly. The right hand of YHWH is exalted. I shall not die, but live. YHWH hath chastened me sore. This gate of YHWH. I will go into them. Give thanks unto YHWH; for he is good.

PSALM 117

Praise ye YHWH. For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of YHWH endureth for ever. O praise YHWH, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.

PSALM 116

I will pay my vows unto YHWH now in the presence of all his people, In the courts of YHWH’s house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye YHWH. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of YHWH. I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of YHWH. What shall I render unto YHWH for all his benefits toward me? Precious in the sight of YHWH is the death of his saints. O YHWH, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of YHWH. I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted: I said in my haste, All men are liars. What shall I render unto YHWH for all his benefits toward me? I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of YHWH. I will pay my vows unto YHWH now in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of YHWH is the death of his saints. O YHWH, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of YHWH. Gracious is YHWH, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful. The YHWH preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me. Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for YHWH hath dealt bountifully with thee. For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling. I love YHWH, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications. Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow. Then called I upon the name of YHWH; O YHWH, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.

PSALM 115

But we will bless YHWH from this time forth and for evermore. Praise ye YHWH. The dead praise not YHWH, neither any that go down into silence. The heaven, even the heavens, are YHWH’s: but the earth hath he given to the children of men. Ye are blessed of YHWH which made heaven and earth. The YHWH shall increase you more and more, you and your children. He will bless them that fear YHWH, both small and great. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless the house of Israel. The YHWH hath been mindful of us: he will bless us. Ye that fear YHWH, trust in YHWH: he is their help and their shield. O house of Aaron, trust in YHWH: he is their help and their shield. O Israel, trust thou in YHWH: he is their help and their shield. They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them. They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat. They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not. They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands. But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? Not unto us, O YHWH, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth’s sake.

PSALM 114

Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob; Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters. The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back. The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs. What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back? Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs? At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth, of the God of Jacob. When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language; Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.

PSALM 113

Praise ye YHWH. He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill. Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth. Who is like unto YHWH our God, who dwelleth on high. The YHWH is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the name of YHWH is to be praised. Blessed be the name of YHWH from this time forth and for evermore. Praise, O ye servants of YHWH, praise the name of YHWH. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 112

The desire of the wicked shall perish. The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away. His horn shall be exalted with honour. His righteousness endureth for ever; he hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor. Until he see his desire upon his enemies. His heart is established, he shall not be afraid. His heart is fixed, trusting in YHWH. He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. The righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance. Surely he shall not be moved for ever. He will guide his affairs with discretion. A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth. He is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous. Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness. His righteousness endureth for ever. Wealth and riches shall be in his house. The generation of the upright shall be blessed. His seed shall be mighty upon earth. Blessed is the man that feareth YHWH, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 111

The fear of YHWH is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever. The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure. He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant. He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. The works of his hands are verity and judgment. Holy and reverend is his name. The fear of YHWH is the beginning of wisdom. Redemption he hath sent unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever. He sent redemption unto his people. The works of his hands are verity and judgment. He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered. The works of YHWH are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 110

He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head. He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries. The YHWH at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath. The YHWH hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek. Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth. The YHWH shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies. The YHWH said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.

PSALM 109

For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul. Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from YHWH, and of them that speak evil against my soul. Let them be before YHWH continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with YHWH; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out. Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. Let his days be few; and let another take his office. Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places. Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour. Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children. Let his posterity be cut off. As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him. As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones. Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually. Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from YHWH. Let them be before YHWH continually. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered. Let his children be fatherless. Let his days be few. Let the extortioner catch all that he hath. Let there be none to extend mercy. As he loved cursing. As he clothed himself with cursing. Let it be unto him as the garment. Let this be the reward. Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart. Yea, he loved cursing. Let it be unto him as the garment. Let them be before YHWH continually. Let the iniquity of his fathers. Let his children be fatherless. Let his days be few. Let the extortioner catch all. Let there be none to favour. As he loved cursing. As he clothed himself. Let it be unto him. Because that he remembered not to shew mercy. And he loved cursing. Let it be far from him. He delighted not in blessing. Let the cursing come into his bowels. Let it be as the garment. Let this be the reward of mine adversaries. Let them be before YHWH. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered. Let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. Let his posterity be cut off. Let their name be blotted out. Let his children be fatherless. Let his wife a widow. Let his days be few. Let another take his office. Let his children be vagabonds. Let them seek their bread. Let the extortioner catch. Let strangers spoil. Let there be none to extend mercy. Let there be none to favour. As he loved cursing. As he delighted not. Let it come unto him. Let it be far. As he clothed himself. Let it come into his bowels. Let it be as the garment. Let this be the reward. Because he remembered not mercy. But persecuted the poor. That he might slay the broken. And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. They have also compassed me about with words of hatred. For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me. Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise.

PSALM 108

Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts? Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver. Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph. God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me. For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth. That thy beloved may be delivered. God hath spoken in his holiness. Gilead is mine. Who will bring me into the strong city. Wilt not thou, O God. Give us help from trouble. Through God we shall do valiantly. I will rejoice. I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early. I will praise thee, O YHWH, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. For thy mercy is great above the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth. That thy beloved may be delivered. O God, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.

PSALM 107

Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of YHWH. They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters; These see the works of YHWH, and his wonders in the deep. For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof. They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits’ end. Then they cry unto YHWH in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven. Oh that men would praise YHWH for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground; A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings. And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation; And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase. He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow. He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way. Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock. The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. Whoso is wise, and will observe these things…
Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron; Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High: Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help. Then they cried unto YHWH in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder. Oh that men would praise YHWH for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder. Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death. Then they cry unto YHWH in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses. He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions. Oh that men would praise YHWH for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing. They that go down to the sea in ships…
They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. Then they cried unto YHWH in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses. And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. Oh that men would praise YHWH for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron…
O give thanks unto YHWH, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. Let the redeemed of YHWH say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy; And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.

PSALM 106

Blessed be YHWH God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye YHWH. Save us, O YHWH our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise. And he made his people to be pitied of all those that carried them captives. Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry: And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity. Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known. And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left. Then believed they his words; they sang his praise. They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel: But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul. They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of YHWH. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image. Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt; Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea. Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them. They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom YHWH commanded them: But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works. And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them. Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils, And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood. Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions. Therefore was the wrath of YHWH kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance. And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them. Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand. Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity. Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry: And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives. Save us, O YHWH our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise. Blessed be YHWH God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 105

That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye YHWH. He brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness: And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people. Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them. He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night. The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river. For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant. He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes; Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm. When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people. Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread. He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant. Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron. Until the time that his word came: the word of YHWH tried him. The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free. He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance. To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom. Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies. He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants. He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen. They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham. He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word. He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings. He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts. He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land. He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts. He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number. And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength. He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes. Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them. He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night. The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river. For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant. And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness. And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people. That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye YHWH.

PSALM 104

Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou YHWH, O my soul. Praise ye YHWH. The glory of YHWH shall endure for ever: YHWH shall rejoice in his works. He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke. Let the sinners be consumed… O YHWH, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts. There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein. These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season. That thou mayest give them their meat in due season. These wait all upon thee. There go the ships. So is this great and wide sea. O YHWH, how manifold are thy works! He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills. They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst. By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches. He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works. He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth. Thou hast made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down. Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth. The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God. The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens. Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening. O YHWH, how manifold are thy works! He sendeth the springs. They give drink. By them shall the fowls. He watereth the hills. He causeth the grass. Thou hast made the moon. Thou makest darkness. The young lions. The sun ariseth. Man goeth forth. Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind: Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire: Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever. Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains. At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away. The mountains ascend, the valleys descend unto the place which thou hast founded for them. Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth. He sendeth the springs. O YHWH my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty. Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain.

PSALM 103

Bless the YHWH, O my soul. Bless YHWH, all his works in all places of his dominion. Bless ye YHWH, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure. Bless the YHWH, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. The YHWH hath prepared his throne in heaven; and his kingdom ruleth over all. To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them. But the mercy of YHWH is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children. For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more. As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the YHWH pitieth them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever. The YHWH is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. The YHWH executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle’s. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies. Who healeth all thy diseases. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities. Bless the YHWH, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Bless the YHWH, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.

PSALM 102

The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee. Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come. When YHWH shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory. For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did YHWH behold the earth. To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death. This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise YHWH. Because he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard. For he hath looked down… Thou shalt arise… The children of thy servants… Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. The children of thy servants shall continue… I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations. I said, My God… My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass. Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down. For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping. My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread. By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin. I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert. I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top. Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me. For I have eaten ashes… My days are consumed like smoke… Hear my prayer, O YHWH, and let my cry come unto thee. Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily. For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth. My heart is smitten, and withered like grass… O YHWH my God. Hear my prayer…

PSALM 101

I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of YHWH. He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me. Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer. A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me. I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart. I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O YHWH, will I sing.

