YHWH Codex / full reverse English : 
made coherent - 

YH(YY)H Codex:

REVELATIONS-

CH22

The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints. Amen.
Jesus the Lord says come. Amen. I am coming quickly. Yes. The one witnessing these things says.
If anyone takes away from the words of this book of prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city and from the things written in this book.
If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues written in this book. I testify to everyone hearing the words of the prophecy of this book.
The Spirit and the bride say come. Let the one hearing say come. Let the one thirsting come. Let the one wanting take the water of life freely.
I Jesus sent my angel to testify these things to you in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star.
Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone loving and making a lie.
Blessed are those doing his commandments, that their authority may be over the tree of life and they may enter through the gates into the city.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
Behold I am coming quickly and my reward is with me to render to each as his work shall be.
Let the unrighteous still do unrighteousness and let the filthy still be filthy and let the righteous still do righteousness and let the holy still be made holy.
The time is near. Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book.
The angel says to me: See you do not. I am a fellow servant of you and of your brothers the prophets and of those keeping the words of this book. Worship God.
I John am the one seeing and hearing these things. When I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the angel showing these things to me.
Behold I am coming quickly. Blessed is the one keeping the words of the prophecy of this book.
These words are faithful and true. The Lord God of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to show his servants what must happen in speed.
There will be no more night and they have no need of lamp or light of sun because the Lord God will light upon them and they will reign into the ages of the ages.
They will see his face and his name will be upon their foreheads.
Every curse will not be any more. The throne of God and of the lamb will be in it and his servants will serve him.
In the midst of its street and of the river from here and from there was the tree of life making twelve fruits rendering its fruit each month and the leaves of the tree for the healing of the nations.
He showed me a pure river of water of life bright as crystal proceeding from the throne of God and of the lamb.
Nothing common or making abomination or a lie may enter into it except those written in the book of life of the lamb.
The kings of the earth bring their glory and honor into it.
Its gates will not be closed by day for there will be no night there.
The nations will walk through its light and the kings of the earth bring their glory into it.
The city has no need of the sun nor of the moon that they may shine upon it for the glory of God lighted it and its lamp is the lamb.
I saw no temple in it for the Lord God almighty is its temple and the lamb.
The street of the city was pure gold like transparent glass. The twelve gates were twelve pearls each one of the gates was of one pearl.
The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald, the fifth sardonyx, the sixth sardius, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
The building of its wall was jasper and the city was pure gold like pure glass.
He measured its wall a hundred forty four cubits the measure of a man which is of an angel.
The city lies square and its length is as the width. He measured the city with the reed upon twelve thousand stadia. Its length and width and height are equal.
The one speaking with me had a golden reed that he might measure the city and its gates and its wall.
The wall of the city had twelve foundations and upon them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the lamb.
Three gates from the east, three gates from the north, three gates from the south, three gates from the west.
It had a great and high wall having twelve gates and upon the gates twelve angels and names written which are of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel.
Having the glory of God. Its light-giver was like a most precious stone as a crystallizing jasper stone.
He carried me away in spirit upon a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God.
One of the seven angels having the seven bowls full of the last plagues came and spoke with me saying come I will show you the bride the wife of the lamb.
But to the cowardly and unbelieving and sinners and abominable and murderers and fornicators and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars their part is in the lake burning with fire and brimstone which is the second death.
The one overcoming will inherit all things and I will be God to him and he will be son to me.
He says to me it is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega the beginning and the end. To the one thirsting I will give freely from the spring of the water of life.
He says to me these words are true and faithful.
Behold I make all things new.
God has wiped away every tear from their eyes and death will be no longer nor mourning nor crying nor pain for the former things have passed away.
I heard a great loud voice from heaven saying behold the dwelling of God is with men and he will dwell with them and they will be his people and God himself will be with them.
I saw the new holy Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the first heaven and the first earth passed away and the sea was no longer.
Whoever was not found written in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.
Death and hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
The sea gave up the dead in it and death and hades gave up the dead in them and each was judged according to their works.
I saw the dead small and great standing before the throne and books were opened and another book was opened which is of life and the dead were judged from the things written in the books according to their works.
I saw a great white throne and the one sitting upon it from whose face earth and heaven fled and no place was found for them.
The devil was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are and they will be tormented day and night into the ages of the ages.
Fire came down from heaven and devoured them and the devil deceiving the nations was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone.
When the thousand years are expired Satan will be loosed from his prison and will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of the earth Gog and Magog to gather them to battle whose number is as the sand of the sea.
When the thousand years are finished Satan is loosed from his prison.
Blessed and holy is the one having part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him a thousand years.
The rest of the dead lived not until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
I saw thrones and they sat upon them and judgment was given to them and the souls of those beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God who had not worshiped the beast nor his image and had not received the mark upon their forehead and upon their hand and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
He threw him into the abyss and shut and sealed over him that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years are completed. After these things he must be released a short time.
He seized the dragon the ancient serpent who is the devil and Satan and bound him a thousand years.
I saw an angel coming down from heaven having the key of the abyss and a great chain upon his hand.
The rest were slain with the sword of the one sitting upon the horse proceeding out of his mouth and all the birds were filled from their flesh.
The beast was seized and with him the false prophet who made the signs before him by which he deceived those receiving the mark of the beast and those worshiping his image. The two were cast living into the lake of fire burning with brimstone.
I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered to make war with the one sitting upon the horse and with his army.
I saw one angel standing in the sun and he cried with a loud voice to all the birds flying in midheaven come gather to the supper of the great God to eat the flesh of kings and flesh of captains and flesh of mighty men and flesh of horses and of those sitting upon them and flesh of all both free and bond small and great.
He has a name written upon his garment and upon his thigh king of kings and lord of lords.
Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp sword that with it he might smite the nations and he treads the winepress of the fierce wrath of God almighty.
The armies in heaven followed him upon white horses clothed in fine linen white and pure.
He is clothed with a garment dipped in blood and his name is called the word of God.
His eyes are a flame of fire and upon his head are many diadems and he has a name written which no one knows except himself.
I saw heaven opened and behold a white horse and the one sitting upon him called faithful and true and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
I fell before his feet to worship him and he says to me see you do not. I am a fellow servant of you and of your brothers having the testimony of Jesus. Worship God for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
Write blessed are those called to the marriage supper of the lamb. These are the true words of God.
It was granted to her that she might be arrayed in fine linen bright and pure for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him because the marriage of the lamb has come and his wife has prepared herself.
I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude and as the voice of many waters and as the voice of strong thunders saying hallelujah for the Lord our God the almighty reigns.
A voice came out from the throne saying give praise to our God all his servants and those fearing him the small and the great.
The twenty four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God the one sitting upon the throne saying amen hallelujah.
And a second time they said hallelujah and her smoke rises into the ages of the ages.
Because true and righteous are his judgments for he judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication.
After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying hallelujah salvation and glory and power belong to our God.
In her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all those slain upon the earth.
The voice of bridegroom and bride will not be heard in you any more at all and no craftsman of any craft will be found in you any more at all and the sound of a millstone will not be heard in you any more at all and the light of a lamp will not shine in you any more at all.
The sound of harpists and musicians and flute players and trumpeters will not be heard in you any more at all.
A mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea saying thus with violence will Babylon the great city be thrown down and will never be found any more at all.
Rejoice over her heaven and you saints and apostles and prophets because God judged your judgment against her.
They cast dust on their heads and cried weeping and mourning saying woe woe the great city in which all who had ships at sea became rich by her wealth in one hour she has been made desolate.
Saying what city is like the great city as she is burned.
All who sail the sea and sailors and shipmasters and as many as work the sea stood afar off and cried when they saw the smoke of her burning saying in one hour such great wealth has been made desolate.
Saying woe woe the great city that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stone and pearl in one hour such great wealth has been made desolate.
The merchants of these things who became rich from her will stand afar off for fear of her torment weeping and mourning.
The fruit of the desire of your soul has gone from you and all things splendid and bright have perished from you and you will never find them any more at all.
Merchandise of gold and silver and precious stone and pearl and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet and every thyine wood and every vessel of ivory and every vessel of most precious wood and of brass and of iron and of marble and cinnamon and spice and incense and ointment and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and beasts and sheep and horses and chariots and slaves and souls of men.
The merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their merchandise any more.
Standing afar off for fear of her torment saying woe woe the great strong city Babylon for in one hour your judgment has come.
The kings of the earth who committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning.
Therefore in one day her plagues will come death and mourning and famine and she will be burned up with fire for strong is the Lord God who judged her.
As much as she glorified herself and lived luxuriously so much give her torment and mourning for she says in her heart I sit as queen and I am not a widow and I will never see mourning.
Render to her as she rendered and double to her double according to her works. In the cup which she mixed mix double for her.
For her sins have reached to heaven and God has remembered her iniquities.
Come out of her my people that you may not partake in her sins and that you may not receive of her plagues.
I heard another voice from heaven saying fallen fallen is Babylon the great and she has become a habitation of demons and a hold of every unclean spirit and a hold of every unclean bird hateful and a hold of every unclean and hateful beast.
The kings of the earth committed fornication with her and the merchants of the earth became rich from the power of her luxury.
Fallen fallen is Babylon the great.
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven having great authority and the earth was illuminated with his glory and he cried with a strong voice saying fallen fallen is Babylon the great.

CH21 

Whoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.
I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away and there was no more sea.
I saw the holy city new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
I heard a loud voice from heaven saying behold the tabernacle of God is with men and he will dwell with them and they shall be his people and God himself shall be with them and be their God.
God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes and there shall be no more death nor sorrow nor crying nor pain for the former things have passed away.
He who sat upon the throne said behold I make all things new and he said to me write for these words are true and faithful.
He said to me it is done I am the Alpha and the Omega the beginning and the end. I will give to him who is thirsty of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He who overcomes shall inherit all things and I will be his God and he shall be my son.
But the cowardly unbelieving abominable murderers fornicators sorcerers idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone which is the second death.
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and talked with me saying come I will show you the bride the wife of the lamb.
He carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me the great city the holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God having the glory of God. Her light was like a stone most precious even like a jasper stone clear as crystal.
It had a wall great and high with twelve gates and at the gates twelve angels and names written thereon which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
On the east three gates on the north three gates on the south three gates on the west three gates.
The wall of the city had twelve foundations and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the lamb.
He who talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city and the gates thereof and the wall thereof.
The city lies foursquare and the length is as large as the breadth and he measured the city with the reed twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
He measured the wall thereof a hundred and forty four cubits according to the measure of a man that is of the angel.
The building of the wall of it was of jasper and the city was pure gold like unto clear glass.
The foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper the second sapphire the third chalcedony the fourth emerald the fifth sardonyx the sixth sardius the seventh chrysolite the eighth beryl the ninth topaz the tenth chrysoprase the eleventh jacinth the twelfth amethyst.
The twelve gates were twelve pearls every several gate was of one pearl and the street of the city was pure gold as it were transparent glass.
I saw no temple therein for the Lord God Almighty and the lamb are the temple of it.
The city had no need of the sun neither of the moon to shine in it for the glory of God did lighten it and the lamb is the light thereof.
The nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.
The gates of it shall not be shut at all by day for there shall be no night there.
They shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.
There shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defiles or works abomination or makes a lie but they which are written in the lamb’s book of life.
He showed me a pure river of water of life clear as crystal proceeding out of the throne of God and of the lamb.
In the midst of the street of it and on either side of the river was there the tree of life which bare twelve manner of fruits and yielded her fruit every month and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
There shall be no more curse but the throne of God and of the lamb shall be in it and his servants shall serve him.
They shall see his face and his name shall be in their foreheads.
There shall be no night there and they need no candle neither light of the sun for the Lord God gives them light and they shall reign for ever and ever.
He said to me these sayings are faithful and true and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.
Behold I come quickly blessed is he that keeps the sayings of the prophecy of this book.
I John saw these things and heard them and when I had heard and seen I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things.
Then he said to me see thou do it not for I am thy fellowservant and of thy brethren the prophets and of them which keep the sayings of this book. Worship God.
He said to me seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book for the time is at hand.
He that is unjust let him be unjust still and he which is filthy let him be filthy still and he that is righteous let him be righteous still and he that is holy let him be holy still.
Behold I come quickly and my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be.
I am Alpha and Omega the beginning and the end the first and the last.
Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates into the city.
For without are dogs and sorcerers and whoremongers and murderers and idolaters and whosoever loves and makes a lie.
I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright and morning star.
The Spirit and the bride say come and let him that hears say come and let him that is athirst come and whosoever will let him take the water of life freely.
I testify unto every man that hears the words of the prophecy of this book if any man shall add unto these things God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book.
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city and from the things which are written in this book.
He which testifies these things says surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so come Lord Jesus.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

CH20 

The devil who deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away and there was found no place for them.
I saw the dead small and great stand before God and the books were opened and another book was opened which is the book of life and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works.
The sea gave up the dead which were in it and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them and they were judged every man according to their works.
Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.
When the thousand years were expired Satan was loosed out of his prison and went out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth Gog and Magog to gather them together to battle the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
They went up on the breadth of the earth and compassed the camp of the saints about and the beloved city and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them.
The devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
I saw thrones and they sat upon them and judgment was given unto them and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God and which had not worshipped the beast neither his image neither had received his mark upon their foreheads or in their hands and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
The rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he that has part in the first resurrection. On such the second death has no power but they shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years.
He laid hold on the dragon that old serpent which is the devil and Satan and bound him a thousand years and cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up and set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled and after that he must be loosed a little season.
I saw an angel come down from heaven having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
The rest of the dead were not raised until the thousand years were finished.
The souls of those beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and the word of God who did not worship the beast or his image and did not receive his mark lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them.
When the thousand years are over Satan will be released from his prison.
Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years.
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony about Jesus and because of the word of God. They had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil, or Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. He threw him into the Abyss, and locked and sealed it over him, to keep him from deceiving the nations anymore until the thousand years were ended. After that, he must be set free for a short time.
I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key to the Abyss and holding in his hand a great chain.
They marched across the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of God’s people, the city he loves. But fire came down from heaven and devoured them.
When the thousand years come to an end, Satan will be let out of his prison. He will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of the earth — Gog and Magog — and to gather them for battle. In number they are like the sand on the seashore.
The rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were completed.
I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their witness to Jesus and for the word of God. They had not worshiped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead or on their hand. They lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with Him for a thousand years.
He laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years.
I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
The rest were killed with the sword that came out of the mouth of the rider on the horse, and all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh.
The beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who had performed the signs on his behalf. With these signs he had deluded those who had received the mark of the beast and worshiped its image. The two of them were thrown alive into the fiery lake of burning sulfur.
I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to wage war against the rider on the horse and his army.
I saw an angel standing in the sun, who cried in a loud voice to all the birds flying in midair, “Come, gather together for the great supper of God, so that you may eat the flesh of kings, generals, and the mighty, of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all people, free and slave, great and small.”
On his robe and on his thigh he has this name written: king of kings and lord of lords.
Coming out of his mouth is a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. “He will rule them with an iron scepter.” He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty.
The armies of heaven were following him, riding on white horses and dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is the Word of God.
His eyes are like blazing fire, and on his head are many crowns. He has a name written on him that no one knows but he himself.
I saw heaven standing open and there before me was a white horse, whose rider is called Faithful and True. With justice he judges and wages war.
I fell at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, “Don’t do that! I am a fellow servant with you and with your brothers and sisters who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For it is the Spirit of prophecy who bears testimony to Jesus.”
Then the angel said to me, “Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the lamb!” And he added, “These are the true words of God.”
….

CH19 

After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying hallelujah salvation and glory and power belong to our God for true and righteous are his judgments because he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication and he has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. And a second time they said hallelujah and her smoke rises up forever and ever. And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne saying amen hallelujah. And a voice came out from the throne saying give praise to our God all you his bond-servants you who fear him the small and the great. Then I heard something like the voice of a great multitude and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder saying hallelujah for the Lord our God the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him for the marriage of the lamb has come and his bride has made herself ready. It was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen bright and clean for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me write blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the lamb. These are true words of God. I fell at his feet to worship him but he said to me do not do that I am a fellow servant of you and your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. I saw heaven opened and behold a white horse and he who sat on it is called faithful and true and in righteousness he judges and wages war. His eyes are a flame of fire and on his head are many diadems and he has a name written on him which no one knows except himself. He is clothed with a robe dipped in blood and his name is called the word of God. The armies which are in heaven clothed in fine linen white and clean were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword so that with it he may strike down the nations and he will rule them with a rod of iron and he treads the wine press of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written king of kings and lord of lords. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun and he cried out with a loud voice saying to all the birds which fly in midheaven come assemble for the great supper of God so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of commanders and the flesh of mighty men and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them and the flesh of all men both free men and slaves and small and great. I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war against him who sat on the horse and against his army. The beast was seized and with him the false prophet who performed the signs in his presence by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire which burns with brimstone. The rest were killed with the sword which came from the mouth of him who sat on the horse and all the birds were filled with their flesh.

CH18 

After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven having great authority and the earth was illuminated with his glory. He cried out with a mighty voice saying fallen fallen is Babylon the great and she has become a dwelling place of demons and a prison of every unclean spirit and a prison of every unclean bird and a prison of every unclean and hateful beast. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the wealth of her luxury. I heard another voice from heaven saying come out of her my people so that you will not participate in her sins and receive of her plagues for her sins have piled up as high as heaven and God has remembered her iniquities. Pay her back even as she has paid and give back to her double according to her deeds in the cup which she has mixed mix twice as much for her. To the degree that she glorified herself and lived sensuously to the same degree give her torment and mourning for she says in her heart I sit as a queen and I am not a widow and will never see mourning. For this reason in one day her plagues will come pestilence and mourning and famine and she will be burned up with fire for the Lord God who judges her is strong. The kings of the earth who committed acts of immorality and lived sensuously with her will weep and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning standing at a distance because of the fear of her torment saying woe woe the great city Babylon the strong city for in one hour your judgment has come. The merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargoes any longer cargoes of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet and every kind of thyine wood and every vessel of ivory and every vessel made from very costly wood and bronze and iron and marble and cinnamon and spice and incense and perfume and frankincense and wine and olive oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep and cargoes of horses and chariots and slaves and human lives. The merchants of these things who became rich from her will stand at a distance because of the fear of her torment weeping and mourning saying woe woe the great city clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls for in one hour such great wealth has been laid waste. Every shipmaster and every passenger and sailor and as many as make their living by the sea stood at a distance and were crying out when they saw the smoke of her burning saying what city is like the great city and they threw dust on their heads and were crying out weeping and mourning saying woe woe the great city in which all who had ships at sea became rich by her wealth for in one hour she has been laid waste. Rejoice over her O heaven and you saints and apostles and prophets because God has pronounced judgment for you against her. Then a strong angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea saying so will Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence and will not be found any longer. The sound of harpists and musicians and flute-players and trumpeters will not be heard in you any longer and no craftsman of any craft will be found in you any longer and the sound of the millstone will not be heard in you any longer and the light of a lamp will not shine in you any longer and the voice of the bridegroom and bride will not be heard in you any longer for your merchants were the great men of the earth because all the nations were deceived by your sorcery. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth.

CH17 

The woman whom you saw is the great city which reigns over the kings of the earth.
The beast that was and is not is himself also an eighth and is one of the seven and is going to destruction.
The ten horns which you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom but they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour.
These have one purpose and they give their power and authority to the beast.
These will wage war against the lamb and the lamb will overcome them because he is Lord of lords and King of kings and those who are with him are the called and chosen and faithful.
The waters which you saw where the harlot sits are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.
The ten horns which you saw and the beast these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire.
For God has put it in their hearts to carry out his purpose by having one purpose and by giving their kingdom to the beast until the words of God will be fulfilled.
The woman whom you saw is the great city which has kingship over the kings of the earth.
Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits and they are seven kings. Five have fallen one is the other has not yet come and when he comes he must remain a little while. The beast that was and is not is himself also an eighth and is one of the seven and he goes to destruction.
The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. Those who dwell on the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will wonder when they see the beast that he was and is not and will come.
I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her which has the seven heads and the ten horns.
The beast that carries her I will tell you the mystery of.
I wondered greatly when I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus.
The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls having in her hand a gold cup full of abominations and the unclean things of her fornication. Upon her forehead was written a name a mystery Babylon the great the mother of harlots and of the abominations of the earth.
The woman whom you saw is drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus.
The beast that carries her was full of blasphemous names having seven heads and ten horns. He carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast.
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me saying come I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters with whom the kings of the earth committed acts of immorality and those who dwell on the earth were made drunk with the wine of her immorality.

CH16 

Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl upon the air and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne saying it is done. There were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and there was a great earthquake such as there had not been since man came to be upon the earth so great was the earthquake. The great city was split into three parts and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of his fierce wrath. Every island fled away and the mountains were not found. Huge hailstones about one hundred pounds each came down from heaven upon men and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail because its plague was extremely severe.
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates and its water was dried up so that the way would be prepared for the kings from the east. I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet three unclean spirits like frogs for they are spirits of demons performing signs which go out to the kings of the whole world to gather them together for the war of the great day of God the Almighty. Behold I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps his clothes so that he will not walk about naked and men will not see his shame. They gathered them together to the place which in Hebrew is called Har-Magedon.
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast and his kingdom became darkened and they gnawed their tongues because of pain and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores and they did not repent of their deeds.
The fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun and power was given to it to scorch men with fire and men were scorched with fierce heat and they blasphemed the name of God who has power over these plagues and they did not repent so as to give him glory.
The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters and they became blood. I heard the angel of the waters saying righteous are you who are and who were the holy one because you judged these things for they poured out the blood of saints and prophets and you have given them blood to drink. They deserve it. I heard the altar saying yes Lord God Almighty true and righteous are your judgments.
The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea and it became blood like that of a dead man and every living thing in the sea died.
The first angel poured out his bowl on the earth and a loathsome and malignant sore appeared on the people who had the mark of the beast and who worshiped his image.
I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.

CH15 

I saw in heaven another great and marvelous sign seven angels having the seven last plagues for in them the wrath of God is finished.
I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire and those who had overcome the beast and his image and the number of his name standing on the sea of glass holding harps of God. They sang the song of Moses the bond-servant of God and the song of the lamb saying great and marvelous are your works Lord God Almighty righteous and true are your ways King of the nations. Who will not fear Lord and glorify your name for you alone are holy for all the nations will come and worship before you for your righteous acts have been revealed.
After these things I looked and the temple of the tabernacle of testimony in heaven was opened and the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple clothed in pure bright linen and having their breasts girded with golden sashes. One of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever. The temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power and no one was able to enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.

CH14 

Then I looked and behold the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion and with him one hundred and forty-four thousand having his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads. I heard a voice from heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder and the voice which I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps. They sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders and no one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been purchased from the earth. These are the ones who have not been defiled with women for they are virgins. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been purchased from among men as first fruits to God and to the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouth they are blameless.
I saw another angel flying in midheaven having an eternal gospel to preach to those who live on the earth and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people saying with a loud voice fear God and give him glory for the hour of his judgment has come and worship him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters.
Another angel a second one followed saying fallen fallen is Babylon the great she who has made all the nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
Then another angel a third one followed them saying with a loud voice if anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God which is mixed in full strength in the cup of his anger and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever and they have no rest day and night those who worship the beast and his image and whoever receives the mark of his name. Here is the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
I heard a voice from heaven saying write blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on that they may rest from their labors for their deeds follow with them.
Then I looked and behold a white cloud and one sitting on the cloud like a son of man having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. Another angel came out of the temple crying out with a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud put in your sickle and reap for the hour to reap has come because the harvest of the earth is ripe. The one who sat on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth and the earth was reaped.
Another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven and he also had a sharp sickle. Then another angel the one who has power over fire came out from the altar and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle saying put in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth because her grapes are ripe. The angel swung his sickle to the earth and gathered the clusters from the vine of the earth and threw them into the great wine press of the wrath of God. The wine press was trodden outside the city and blood came out from the wine press up to the horses’ bridles for a distance of two hundred miles.

CH13 

Here is wisdom. Let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast for the number is that of a man and his number is six hundred and sixty-six.
He causes all both small and great rich and poor free and slave to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead so that no one can buy or sell except the one who has the mark either the name of the beast or the number of his name.
He had power to give breath to the image of the beast so that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. He performs great signs so that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth in the sight of men. He deceives those who dwell on the earth because of the signs which it was given him to perform in the presence of the beast telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who had the wound of the sword and has come to life.
Then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth and he had two horns like a lamb and he spoke as a dragon. He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence and he makes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast whose fatal wound was healed.
I saw one of his heads as if it had been slain and his fatal wound was healed and the whole earth was amazed and followed after the beast. They worshiped the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast and they worshiped the beast saying who is like the beast and who is able to wage war with him. There was given to him a mouth speaking arrogant words and blasphemies and authority to act for forty-two months was given to him. He opened his mouth in blasphemies against God to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle and those who dwell in heaven. It was also given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them and authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation was given to him. All who dwell on the earth will worship him everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life of the lamb who has been slain.
If anyone has an ear let him hear. If anyone is destined for captivity to captivity he goes. If anyone kills with the sword with the sword he must be killed. Here is the perseverance and the faith of the saints.

CH12 

A great sign appeared in heaven a woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was with child and she cried out being in labor and in pain to give birth. Then another sign appeared in heaven and behold a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and on his heads were seven diadems. His tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. The dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth so that when she gave birth he might devour her child. She gave birth to a son a male child who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron and her child was caught up to God and to his throne. The woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God so that there she would be nourished for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.
There was war in heaven Michael and his angels waged war with the dragon and the dragon and his angels waged war. They were not strong enough and there was no longer a place found for them in heaven. The great dragon was thrown down the serpent of old who is called the devil and Satan who deceives the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth and his angels were thrown down with him. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come for the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down he who accuses them before our God day and night. They overcame him because of the blood of the lamb and because of the word of their testimony and they did not love their life even when faced with death. For this reason rejoice O heavens and you who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and the sea because the devil has come down to you having great wrath knowing that he has only a short time.
When the dragon saw that he was thrown down to the earth he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child. Two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman so that she could fly into the wilderness to her place where she was nourished for a time and times and half a time from the presence of the serpent. The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman so that he might cause her to be swept away with the flood. The earth helped the woman and the earth opened its mouth and drank up the river which the dragon poured out of his mouth. The dragon was enraged with the woman and went off to make war with the rest of her children who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. He stood on the sand of the seashore.

CH11 

The second woe is past. Behold the third woe is coming quickly. Then the seventh angel sounded his trumpet and there were loud voices in heaven saying the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ and he will reign forever and ever. The twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God saying we give you thanks Lord God Almighty who is and who was because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. The nations were enraged and your wrath came and the time to judge the dead and to reward your bond-servants the prophets and the saints and those who fear your name the small and the great and to destroy those who destroy the earth. The temple of God which is in heaven was opened and the ark of his covenant appeared in his temple and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm.
In that hour there was a great earthquake and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. The two witnesses went up into heaven in the cloud and their enemies watched them. They heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them come up here and they went up into heaven in the cloud and their enemies watched them. After the three and a half days the breath of life from God entered them and they stood on their feet and great fear fell upon those who were watching them.
Those from the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days and will not permit their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb. The great city which is spiritually called Sodom and Egypt where also their Lord was crucified. When they have finished their testimony the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them. If anyone wants to harm them fire flows out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone wants to harm them he must be killed in this way. These have the power to shut up the sky so that rain will not fall during the days of their prophesying and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every plague as often as they desire. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.
I was given a measuring rod like a staff and I was told rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it. Leave out the court which is outside the temple and do not measure it for it has been given to the nations and they will tread under foot the holy city for forty-two months. I will grant authority to my two witnesses and they will prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days clothed in sackcloth.

CH10 

I saw another strong angel coming down out of heaven clothed with a cloud and the rainbow was upon his head and his face was like the sun and his feet like pillars of fire. He had in his hand a little book which was open. He set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land. He cried out with a loud voice as when a lion roars and when he had cried out the seven thunders uttered their voices. When the seven thunders had spoken I was about to write but I heard a voice from heaven saying seal up the things which the seven thunders have spoken and do not write them. The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up his right hand to heaven and swore by him who lives forever and ever who created heaven and the things in it and the earth and the things in it and the sea and the things in it that there will be delay no longer but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he is about to sound then the mystery of God is finished as he preached the gospel to his servants the prophets.
The voice which I heard from heaven spoke with me again and said go take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the land. I went to the angel telling him to give me the little book. He said to me take it and eat it and it will make your stomach bitter but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey. I took the little book out of the angel’s hand and ate it and in my mouth it was sweet as honey and when I had eaten it my stomach became bitter. They said to me you must prophesy again concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.

CH9 

The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands so as not to worship demons and the idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood which can neither see nor hear nor walk. They did not repent of their murders nor of their sorceries nor of their immorality nor of their thefts.
For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails for their tails are like serpents having heads and with them they do harm. By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone which proceeded out of their mouths. The appearance of the locusts was like horses prepared for battle and on their heads appeared to be crowns like gold and their faces were like the faces of men. They had hair like the hair of women and their teeth were like the teeth of lions. They had breastplates like breastplates of iron and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses rushing to battle. They have tails like scorpions and stings and in their tails is their power to hurt men for five months. They have as king over them the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon and in the Greek he has the name Apollyon. The first woe is past. Behold two woes are still coming after these things.
Then the sixth angel sounded and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates. The four angels who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year were released so that they would kill a third of mankind. The number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred million. I heard the number of them. This is how I saw in the vision the horses and those who sat on them. The riders had breastplates the color of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone and the heads of the horses are like the heads of lions and out of their mouths proceed fire and smoke and brimstone.
The fifth angel sounded and I saw a star from heaven fallen to the earth and the key of the bottomless pit was given to him. He opened the bottomless pit and smoke went up out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit. Then out of the smoke came locusts upon the earth and power was given them as the scorpions of the earth have power. They were told not to hurt the grass of the earth nor any green thing nor any tree but only the men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. They were not permitted to kill anyone but to torment them for five months and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man. In those days men will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die and death flees from them.

CH8 

When the Lamb broke the seventh seal there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. I saw the seven angels who stand before God and seven trumpets were given to them. Another angel came and stood at the altar holding a golden censer and much incense was given to him so that he might add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne. The smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints went up before God out of the angel’s hand. The angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it to the earth and there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake.
The seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. The first angel sounded his trumpet and there came hail and fire mixed with blood and they were thrown to the earth and a third of the earth was burned up and a third of the trees were burned up and all the green grass was burned up.
The second angel sounded his trumpet and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea and a third of the sea became blood and a third of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died and a third of the ships were destroyed.
The third angel sounded his trumpet and a great star fell from heaven burning like a torch and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of waters. The name of the star is wormwood and a third of the waters became wormwood and many men died from the waters because they were made bitter.
The fourth angel sounded his trumpet and a third of the sun and a third of the moon and a third of the stars were struck so that a third of them would be darkened and the day would not shine for a third of it and the night in the same way. Then I looked and I heard an eagle flying in midheaven saying with a loud voice woe woe woe to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound.

CH7 

For the Lamb in the center of the throne will be their shepherd and will guide them to springs of the water of life and God will wipe every tear from their eyes. They will hunger no longer nor thirst anymore nor will the sun beat down on them nor any heat for the one who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God and they serve him day and night in his temple. One of the elders answered saying to me these who are clothed in the white robes who are they and where have they come from? I said to him my lord you know. These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation. After this I looked and behold a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb clothed in white robes and palm branches were in their hands and they cry out with a loud voice saying salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God saying amen blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever amen. One hundred and forty-four thousand from all the tribes of the sons of Israel were sealed. From the tribe of Judah twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad twelve thousand from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand from the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand from the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand from the tribe of Levi twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand from the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand were sealed. I heard the number of those who were sealed one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the bond-servants of our God on their foreheads. I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun having the seal of the living God and he cried out with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was granted to harm the earth and the sea saying do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the bond-servants of our God on their foreheads.

CH6 

The kings of the earth and the great men and the commanders and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains and they said to the mountains and to the rocks fall on us and hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb for the great day of their wrath has come and who is able to stand.
The sky was split apart like a scroll when it is rolled up and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. The stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind.
I looked when the sixth seal was broken and there was a great earthquake and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair and the whole moon became like blood.
When the Lamb broke the fifth seal I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony which they had maintained and they cried out with a loud voice saying how long O Lord holy and true will you refrain from judging and avenging our blood on those who dwell on the earth? And there was given to each of them a white robe and they were told that they should rest for a little while longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brethren who were to be killed even as they had been should be completed also.
When the Lamb broke the fourth seal I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying come. I looked and behold an ashen horse and he who sat on it had the name Death and Hades was following with him. Authority was given to them over a fourth of the earth to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by the wild beasts of the earth.
When the Lamb broke the third seal I heard the voice of the third living creature saying come. I looked and behold a black horse and he who sat on it had a pair of scales in his hand. I heard something like a voice in the center of the four living creatures saying a quart of wheat for a denarius and three quarts of barley for a denarius and do not damage the oil and the wine.
When the Lamb broke the second seal I heard the second living creature saying come. And another a red horse went out and to him who sat on it was granted to take peace from the earth and that men would slay one another and a great sword was given to him.
When the Lamb broke the first seal I looked and behold a white horse and he who sat on it had a bow and a crown was given to him and he went out conquering and to conquer.
I saw when the Lamb broke one of the seven seals and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as with a voice of thunder come.

CH5 

The four living creatures said amen and the elders fell down and worshiped.
To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever.
I heard every created thing which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them saying to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever.
I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing.
One of the elders said to me stop weeping. Behold the Lion that is from the tribe of Judah the Root of David has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals.
I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and on the back sealed up with seven seals. I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? No one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the book or to look into it. I began to weep greatly because no one was found worthy to open the book or to look into it.
Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals for you were slain and purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation and you have made them to be a kingdom and priests to our God and they will reign upon the earth.

CH4 

After these things I looked and behold a door standing open in heaven and the first voice which I had heard like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me said come up here and I will show you what must take place after these things. Immediately I was in the spirit and behold a throne was standing in heaven and one sitting on the throne. He who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones and on the thrones I saw twenty-four elders sitting clothed in white garments and golden crowns on their heads. Out from the throne come flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne which are the seven spirits of God. Before the throne there was something like a sea of glass like crystal and in the center and around the throne four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. The first creature was like a lion and the second creature like a calf and the third creature had a face like that of a man and the fourth creature was like a flying eagle. Each of the four living creatures had six wings and they were full of eyes all around and within and day and night they do not cease to say holy holy holy is the Lord God the Almighty who was and who is and who is to come. When the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne to him who lives forever and ever the twenty-four elders will fall down before him who sits on the throne and will worship him who lives forever and ever and will cast their crowns before the throne saying worthy are you our Lord and our God to receive glory and honor and power for you created all things and because of your will they existed and were created.

CH3 

Because you say I am rich and have become wealthy and have need of nothing and you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed and eye salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see. Those whom I love I reprove and discipline therefore be zealous and repent. Behold I stand at the door and knock if anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come in to him and will dine with him and he with me. He who overcomes I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne as I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
To the angel of the church in Laodicea write the Amen the faithful and true witness the beginning of the creation of God says this I know your deeds that you are neither cold nor hot I wish that you were cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold I will spit you out of my mouth.
He who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments and I will not erase his name from the book of life and I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Wake up and strengthen the things that remain which were about to die for I have not found your deeds completed in the sight of my God. Remember therefore what you have received and heard and keep it and repent. If you do not wake up I will come like a thief and you will not know at what hour I will come to you. But you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their garments and they will walk with me in white for they are worthy.
To the angel of the church in Sardis write he who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars says this I know your deeds that you have a name that you are alive but you are dead.
Because you have kept the word of my perseverance I also will keep you from the hour of testing which is to come upon the whole world to test those who dwell on the earth. I am coming quickly hold fast what you have so that no one will take your crown. He who overcomes I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God and he will not go out from it anymore and I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God the new Jerusalem which comes down out of heaven from my God and my new name. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
I know your deeds. Behold I have put before you an open door which no one can shut because you have a little power and have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold I will cause those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not but lie I will make them come and bow down at your feet and make them know that I have loved you.
To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write he who is holy who is true who has the key of David who opens and no one will shut and who shuts and no one opens says this.
Remember therefore how you have received and heard and keep it and repent. If therefore you will not wake up I will come like a thief and you will not know what hour I will come upon you. But you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their garments and they will walk with me in white for they are worthy. He who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments and I will not erase his name from the book of life and I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.

CH2 

He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give some of the hidden manna and I will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone which no one knows but he who receives it.
Repent therefore or else I am coming to you quickly and will make war against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
I have a few things against you because you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit acts of immorality. So you also have some who in the same way hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Therefore repent or else I am coming to you quickly.
I know where you dwell where Satan’s throne is and you hold fast my name and did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my witness my faithful one who was killed among you where Satan dwells.
To the angel of the church in Pergamum write the one who has the sharp two-edged sword says this I know your deeds and where you dwell where Satan’s throne is.
He who overcomes and he who keeps my deeds until the end to him I will give authority over the nations and he shall rule them with a rod of iron as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces just as I also have received authority from my Father and I will give him the morning star. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
But I have this against you that you tolerate the woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophetess and she teaches and leads my bond-servants astray so that they commit acts of immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent and she does not want to repent of her immorality. Behold I will throw her on a bed of sickness and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation unless they repent of her deeds. I will kill her children with pestilence and all the churches will know that I am he who searches the minds and hearts and I will give to each one of you according to your deeds.
To the angel of the church in Thyatira write the Son of God who has eyes like a flame of fire and his feet are like burnished bronze says this I know your deeds and your love and faith and service and perseverance and that your deeds of late are greater than at first.
He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the Paradise of God.
But I have this against you that you have left your first love. Therefore remember from where you have fallen and repent and do the deeds you did at first or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its place unless you repent. Yet this you do have that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans which I also hate.
To the angel of the church in Ephesus write the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands says this I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance and that you cannot tolerate evil men and you put to the test those who call themselves apostles and they are not and you found them to be false and you have perseverance and have endured for my name’s sake and have not grown weary.

CH1

I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day and I heard behind me a loud voice like the sound of a trumpet saying write in a book what you see and send it to the seven churches to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea. Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me and having turned I saw seven golden lampstands and in the middle of the lampstands I saw one like a son of man clothed in a robe reaching to the feet and girded across his chest with a golden sash. His head and his hair were white like white wool like snow and his eyes were like a flame of fire. His feet were like burnished bronze when it has been made to glow in a furnace and his voice was like the sound of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars and out of his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword and his face was like the sun shining in its strength. When I saw him I fell at his feet like a dead man and he placed his right hand on me saying do not be afraid I am the first and the last and the living one and I was dead and behold I am alive forevermore and I have the keys of death and of Hades. Therefore write the things which you have seen and the things which are and the things which will take place after these things. As for the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
I John your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perseverance which are in Jesus was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day.
Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven spirits who are before his throne and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness the firstborn of the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us and released us from our sins by his blood and he has made us to be a kingdom priests to his God and Father to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever amen. Behold he is coming with the clouds and every eye will see him even those who pierced him and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. So it is to be amen.
John to the seven churches that are in Asia grace to you and peace.
The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave him to show to his bond-servants the things which must soon take place and he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bond-servant John who testified to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ even to all that he saw. Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and heed the things which are written in it for the time is near.

CH0 Introduction

The revelation of Yeshua the Anointed, which YHWH gave Him to show to His servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending His angel to His servant John, who testifies to everything he saw — the word of YHWH and the testimony of Yeshua the Anointed.
Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear it and take to heart what is written in it, because the time is near.
John, to the seven churches in the province of Asia: Grace and peace to you from Him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits before His throne, and from Yeshua the Anointed, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth.
To Him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by His blood, and has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve His God and Father — to Him be glory and power for ever and ever! Amen.
Look, He is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him; and all peoples on earth will mourn because of Him. So shall it be! Amen.
“I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.”
I, John, your brother and companion in the suffering and kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Yeshua, was on the island of Patmos because of the word of YHWH and the testimony of Yeshua. On the Lord’s Day I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, which said: “Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches…”
