ROMANS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original manuscripts with YHWH framework.
                                                                       
CH16
                                                                       
The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed be with you. Amen.
Now to Him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Yeshua the Anointed according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal YHWH to bring about the obedience of faith — to the only wise YHWH be glory forevermore through Yeshua the Anointed. Amen.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of the Anointed greet you.
Timothy my fellow worker greets you. So do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater my kinsmen. I Tertius who wrote this letter greet you in the Lord. Gaius who is host to me and to the whole church greets you. Erastus the city treasurer and our brother Quartus greet you.
I appeal to you brothers to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught. Avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord the Anointed but their own appetites and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.
I rejoice at your obedience and I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil. The YHWH of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Yeshua be with you.
Now I urge you brothers to watch out for those who cause divisions…
Now to Him who is able to strengthen you…
I commend to you our sister Phoebe a servant of the church at Cenchreae that you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints and help her in whatever she may need from you for she has been a patron of many and of myself as well. Greet Prisca and Aquila my fellow workers in the Anointed Yeshua who risked their necks for my life to whom not only I give thanks but all the churches of the Gentiles. Greet also the church in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus who was the first convert to the Anointed in Asia. Greet Mary who has worked hard for you. Greet Andronicus and Junia my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners. They are well known to the apostles and they were in the Anointed before me. Greet Ampliatus my beloved in the Lord. Greet Urbanus our fellow worker in the Anointed and my beloved Stachys. Greet Apelles who is approved in the Anointed. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus. Greet my kinsman Herodion. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissus. Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa workers in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis who has worked hard in the Lord. Greet Rufus chosen in the Lord and also his mother who has been a mother to me as well. Greet Asyncritus Phlegon Hermes Patrobas Hermas and the brothers who are with them. Greet Philologus and Julia Nereus and his sister and Olympas and all the saints who are with them.

CH15

May the YHWH of peace be with you all. Amen.
Now to Him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Yeshua the Anointed according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal YHWH to bring about the obedience of faith — to the only wise YHWH be glory forevermore through Yeshua the Anointed. Amen.
I myself am satisfied about you my brothers that you yourselves are full of goodness filled with all knowledge and able to instruct one another. But on some points I have written to you very boldly by way of reminder because of the grace given me by YHWH to be a minister of the Anointed Yeshua to the Gentiles in the priestly service of the gospel of YHWH so that the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
I appeal to you brothers by our Lord Yeshua the Anointed and by the love of the Spirit to strive together with me in your prayers to YHWH on my behalf that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints so that by YHWH’s will I may come to you with joy and be refreshed in your company. May the YHWH of peace be with you all. Amen.
I have written to you very boldly on some points so as to remind you again because of the grace given me by YHWH.
I will not venture to speak of anything except what the Anointed has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience — by word and deed by the power of signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of YHWH — so that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of the Anointed. And thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel not where the Anointed has already been named lest I build on someone else’s foundation but as it is written “Those who have never been told of Him will see and those who have never heard will understand.”
Therefore I have reason to be proud of my work for YHWH.
In the Anointed Yeshua then I have reason to be proud of my work for YHWH.
For the Anointed did not please Himself but as it is written “The reproaches of those who reproached You fell on me.” For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the YHWH of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord with the Anointed Yeshua that together you may with one voice glorify the YHWH and Father of our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. Therefore welcome one another as the Anointed has welcomed you for the glory of YHWH. For I tell you that the Anointed became a servant to the circumcised to show YHWH’s truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs and in order that the Gentiles might glorify YHWH for His mercy. As it is written “Therefore I will praise You among the Gentiles and sing to Your name.” And again it says “Rejoice O Gentiles with His people.” And again “Praise the Lord all you Gentiles and let all the peoples extol Him.” And again Isaiah says “The root of Jesse will come he who rises to rule the Gentiles in Him will the Gentiles hope.”
We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good to build him up. For the Anointed did not please Himself.
For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction…
For the Anointed did not please Himself…

                                                                       
CH14

So then each of us will give an account of himself to YHWH. Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.
The faith that you have keep between yourself and YHWH. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
Do not for the sake of food destroy the work of YHWH. Everything is indeed clean but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Yeshua that nothing is unclean in itself but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat do not destroy the one for whom the Anointed died.
For the kingdom of YHWH is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves the Anointed is acceptable to YHWH and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding.
One person esteems one day as better than another while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord since he gives thanks to YHWH while the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to YHWH.
Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld for the Lord is able to make him stand.
As for the one who is weak in faith welcome him but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats for YHWH has welcomed him.

CH13

The night is far gone the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime not in orgies and drunkenness not in sexual immorality and sensuality not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Yeshua the Anointed and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires.
Owe no one anything except to love each other for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments “You shall not commit adultery You shall not murder You shall not steal You shall not covet” and any other commandment are summed up in this word “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” Love does no wrong to a neighbor therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
For there is no authority except from YHWH and those that exist have been instituted by YHWH. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what YHWH has appointed and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good and you will receive his approval for he is YHWH’s servant for your good. But if you do wrong be afraid for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of YHWH an avenger who carries out YHWH’s wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection not only to avoid YHWH’s wrath but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes for the authorities are ministers of YHWH attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them taxes to whom taxes are owed revenue to whom revenue is owed respect to whom respect is owed honor to whom honor is owed.
Let every person be subject to the governing authorities.
Besides this you know the time that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.

CH12

Do not be overcome by evil but overcome evil with good.
Beloved never avenge yourselves but leave it to the wrath of YHWH for it is written “Vengeance is mine I will repay says YHWH.” To the contrary if your enemy is hungry feed him if he is thirsty give him something to drink for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.
Repay no one evil for evil but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible so far as it depends on you live peaceably with all.
Bless those who persecute you bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight.
Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal be fervent in spirit serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope be patient in tribulation be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.
For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think but to think with sober judgment each according to the measure of faith that YHWH has assigned. For as in one body we have many members and the members do not all have the same function so we though many are one body in the Anointed and individually members one of another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us let us use them if prophecy in proportion to our faith if service in our serving the one who teaches in his teaching the one who exhorts in his exhortation the one who contributes in generosity the one who leads with zeal the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness.
I appeal to you therefore brothers by the mercies of YHWH to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to YHWH which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world but be transformed by the renewal of your mind that by testing you may discern what is the will of YHWH what is good and acceptable and perfect.

CH11

For from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be glory forever. Amen. For who has known the mind of the Lord or who has been His counselor? Or who has given a gift to Him that he might be repaid? Oh the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of YHWH! How unsearchable are His judgments and how inscrutable His ways!
And this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. As regards the gospel they are enemies for your sake. But as regards election they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. For the gifts and the calling of YHWH are irrevocable. For just as you were at one time disobedient to YHWH but now have received mercy because of their disobedience so they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also may now receive mercy. For YHWH has consigned all to disobedience that He may have mercy on all.
And in this way all Israel will be saved as it is written “The Deliverer will come from Zion He will banish ungodliness from Jacob” and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins.
Lest you be wise in your own sight I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery brothers a partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in.
For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? If the dough offered as firstfruits is holy so is the whole lump and if the root is holy so are the branches. But if some of the branches were broken off and you although a wild olive shoot were grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are remember it is not you who support the root but the root that supports you. Then you will say “Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.” That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud but fear. For if YHWH did not spare the natural branches neither will He spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of YHWH severity toward those who have fallen but YHWH’s kindness to you provided you continue in His kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off. And even they if they do not continue in their unbelief will be grafted in for YHWH has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree and grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree how much more will these the natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree.
For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world…
I ask then has YHWH rejected His people? By no means! For I myself am an Israelite a descendant of Abraham a member of the tribe of Benjamin. YHWH has not rejected His people whom He foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says of Elijah how he appeals to YHWH against Israel? “Lord they have killed your prophets they have demolished your altars and I alone am left and they seek my life.” But what is YHWH’s reply to him? “I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.” So too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace it is no longer on the basis of works otherwise grace would no longer be grace.

CH10

But of Israel He says “All day long I have held out My hands to a disobedient and contrary people.”
But how are they to call on Him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in Him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!” But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says “Lord who has believed what he has heard from us?” So faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of the Anointed.
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek for the same Lord is Lord of all bestowing His riches on all who call on Him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
For the Scripture says “Everyone who believes in Him will not be put to shame.”
For with the heart one believes and is justified and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.
Because if you confess with your mouth that Yeshua is Lord and believe in your heart that YHWH raised Him from the dead you will be saved.
For the Anointed is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says “Do not say in your heart ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’” (that is to bring the Anointed down) “or ‘Who will descend into the abyss?’” (that is to bring the Anointed up from the dead). But what does it say? “The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart” (that is the word of faith that we proclaim).
For being ignorant of the righteousness of YHWH and seeking to establish their own they did not submit to YHWH’s righteousness. For the Anointed is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
Brothers my heart’s desire and prayer to YHWH for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for YHWH but not according to knowledge.

CH9

What shall we say then? Is there injustice on YHWH’s part? By no means! For He says to Moses “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.” So then it depends not on human will or exertion but on YHWH who has mercy. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh “For this very purpose I have raised you up that I might show my power in you and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.” So then He has mercy on whomever He wills and He hardens whomever He wills.
You will say to me then “Why does He still find fault? For who can resist His will?” But who are you O man to answer back to YHWH? Will what is molded say to its molder “Why have you made me like this?” Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if YHWH desiring to show His wrath and to make known His power has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of His glory for vessels of mercy which He has prepared beforehand for glory — even us whom He has called not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles?
And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel “Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea only a remnant of them will be saved for the Lord will carry out His sentence upon the earth fully and without delay.” And as Isaiah predicted “If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah.”
What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it that is righteousness that is by faith but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone as it is written “Behold I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense and whoever believes in Him will not be put to shame.”
I am speaking the truth in the Anointed — I am not lying my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit — that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from the Anointed for the sake of my brothers my kinsmen according to the flesh. They are Israelites and to them belong the adoption the glory the covenants the giving of the law the worship and the promises. To them belong the patriarchs and from them according to the flesh is the Anointed who is YHWH over all blessed forever. Amen.

CH8

For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of YHWH in the Anointed Yeshua our Lord.
No in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us.
Who shall separate us from the love of the Anointed? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written “For your sake we are being killed all the day long we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.”
And we know that for those who love YHWH all things work together for good for those who are called according to His purpose. For those whom He foreknew He also predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son in order that He might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom He predestined He also called and those whom He called He also justified and those whom He justified He also glorified.
Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And He who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of YHWH.
For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of YHWH. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly but because of Him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of YHWH. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation but we ourselves who have the firstfruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see we wait for it with patience.
The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of YHWH and if children then heirs — heirs of YHWH and fellow heirs with the Anointed provided we suffer with Him in order that we may also be glorified with Him.
For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry “Abba! Father!”
For all who are led by the Spirit of YHWH are sons of YHWH.
There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in the Anointed Yeshua. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in the Anointed Yeshua from the law of sin and death. For YHWH has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do. By sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemned sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to YHWH for it does not submit to YHWH’s law indeed it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please YHWH.

CH7

Thanks be to YHWH through Yeshua the Anointed our Lord! So then I myself serve the law of YHWH with my mind but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
For I do not do the good I want but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want it is no longer I who do it but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of YHWH in my inner being but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.
For we know that the law is spiritual but I am of the flesh sold under sin. For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing.
Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means! It was sin producing death in me through what is good in order that sin might be shown to be sin and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure.
I was once alive apart from the law but when the commandment came sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment deceived me and through it killed me. So the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said “You shall not covet.” But sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law sin lies dead.
Or do you not know brothers — for I am speaking to those who know the law — that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies she is free from that law and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.

CH6

Thanks be to YHWH through Yeshua the Anointed our Lord! So then I myself serve the law of YHWH with my mind but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
For I do not do the good I want but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want it is no longer I who do it but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of YHWH in my inner being but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.
For we know that the law is spiritual but I am of the flesh sold under sin. For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing.
Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means! It was sin producing death in me through what is good in order that sin might be shown to be sin and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure.
I was once alive apart from the law but when the commandment came sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment deceived me and through it killed me. So the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said “You shall not covet.” But sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law sin lies dead.
Or do you not know brothers — for I am speaking to those who know the law — that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies she is free from that law and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.

CH5

More than that we rejoice in YHWH through our Lord Yeshua the Anointed through whom we have now received reconciliation.
And not only that but we rejoice in our sufferings knowing that suffering produces endurance and endurance produces character and character produces hope and hope does not put us to shame because YHWH’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
For while we were still weak at the right time the Anointed died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person — though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die — but YHWH shows His love for us in that while we were still sinners the Anointed died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by His blood much more shall we be saved by Him from the wrath of YHWH. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to YHWH by the death of His Son much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by His life.
Therefore since we have been justified by faith we have peace with YHWH through our Lord Yeshua the Anointed. Through Him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and we rejoice in hope of the glory of YHWH.

CH4

But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in Him who raised from the dead Yeshua our Lord who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
That is why His faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone but for ours also.
He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body which was as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah’s womb. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of YHWH but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to YHWH fully convinced that YHWH was able to do what He had promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness.
He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised so that righteousness would be counted to them as well and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.
For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs faith is null and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath but where there is no law there is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring — not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham who is the father of us all as it is written “I have made you the father of many nations” — in the presence of the YHWH in whom he believed who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist.
Now to the one who works his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due. And to the one who does not work but believes in Him who justifies the ungodly his faith is counted as righteousness just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom YHWH counts righteousness apart from works: “Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin.”
What then shall we say was gained by Abraham our forefather according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works he has something to boast about but not before YHWH. For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed YHWH and it was counted to him as righteousness.”

CH3

Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary we uphold the law.
For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
Or is YHWH the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles also? Yes of Gentiles also since YHWH is one. He will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith.
Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No but by the law of faith.
This was to show YHWH’s righteousness because in His divine forbearance He had passed over former sins. It was to show at the present time that He might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Yeshua.
For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of YHWH and are justified by His grace as a gift through the redemption that is in the Anointed Yeshua whom YHWH put forward as a propitiation by His blood to be received by faith.
Now we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those who are under the law so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held accountable to YHWH. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in His sight since through the law comes knowledge of sin.
What then? Are we Jews any better off? No not at all. For we have already charged that all both Jews and Greeks are under sin as it is written: None is righteous no not one no one understands no one seeks for YHWH. All have turned aside together they have become worthless no one does good not even one. Their throat is an open grave they use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood in their paths are ruin and misery and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of YHWH before their eyes.
Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of YHWH.

CH2

For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from YHWH.
For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law but if you break the law your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly…
But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in YHWH and know His will and approve what is excellent because you are instructed from the law and if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind a light to those who are in darkness an instructor of the foolish a teacher of children having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth — you then who teach others will you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols do you rob temples? You who boast in the law dishonor YHWH by breaking the law. For as it is written “The name of YHWH is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.”
Therefore you have no excuse O man every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself because you the judge practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of YHWH rightly falls on those who practice such things. Do you suppose O man — you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself — that you will escape the judgment of YHWH? Or do you presume on the riches of His kindness and forbearance and patience not knowing that YHWH’s kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when YHWH’s righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works: to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality He will give eternal life but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth but obey unrighteousness there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil the Jew first and also the Greek but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good the Jew first and also the Greek. For YHWH shows no partiality.

CH1

For although they knew YHWH they did not honor Him as YHWH or give thanks to Him but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal YHWH for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Therefore YHWH gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves because they exchanged the truth about YHWH for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason YHWH gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge YHWH YHWH gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness evil covetousness malice. They are full of envy murder strife deceit maliciousness. They are gossips slanderers haters of YHWH insolent haughty boastful inventors of evil disobedient to parents foolish faithless heartless ruthless. Though they know YHWH’s righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.
For the wrath of YHWH is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about YHWH is plain to them because YHWH has shown it to them. For His invisible attributes namely His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.
Paul a servant of the Anointed Yeshua called to be an apostle set apart for the gospel of YHWH which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures concerning His Son who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of YHWH in power according to the Spirit of holiness by His resurrection from the dead Yeshua the Anointed our Lord through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of His name among all the nations including you who are called to belong to Yeshua the Anointed. To all those in Rome who are loved by YHWH and called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from YHWH our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
First I thank my YHWH through Yeshua the Anointed for all of you because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. For YHWH is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers asking that somehow by YHWH’s will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you — that is that we may be mutually encouraged by each other’s faith both yours and mine. I do not want you to be unaware brothers that I have often intended to come to you (but thus far have been prevented) in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians both to the wise and to the foolish. So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the gospel for it is the power of YHWH for salvation to everyone who believes to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of YHWH is revealed from faith for faith as it is written “The righteous shall live by faith.”

CH0 Introduction

Through Him we received grace and apostleship to call all the Gentiles to the obedience that comes from faith for His name’s sake.
And you also are among those Gentiles who are called to belong to Yeshua the Anointed.
To all in Rome who are loved by God and called to be His holy people: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Yeshua the Anointed.
Paul, a servant of Yeshua the Anointed, called to be an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God — the gospel He promised beforehand through His prophets in the Holy Scriptures regarding His Son, who as to His earthly life was a descendant of David, and who through the Spirit of holiness was appointed the Son of God in power by His resurrection from the dead: Yeshua the Anointed our Lord.
