SHEPHERD OF HERMAS 

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to early Greek/Latin manuscript traditions with YHWH framework alignment.


Go therefore and tell the elect of YHWH His mighty works and all the glorious things that the Lord has shown you.
The Shepherd said to me: “You have now received all these revelations. Make them known to the elect of YHWH that they may repent with their whole heart and be healed from their evil deeds. Walk in His commandments that you may live unto YHWH. The Lord is near to those who turn to Him with all their heart.”
The building of the tower is now finished. The Lord of the tower has examined it and found it well built. Many stones have been rejected and cast far from the tower. These are they who have believed but have fallen away because of their double-mindedness and the pleasures of this world. They have no part in the building of the tower.
The Church is the tower. The stones are the elect of YHWH. Those who are polished and fit perfectly are the apostles, prophets, teachers, bishops, deacons and all who have walked in holiness and purity. Those who are rejected are those who have sinned and not repented.
The great and glorious angel is Michael who has authority over this people and governs them. He gives the law to those who keep it.
The Shepherd showed me a great beast like a whale with fiery locusts coming out of its mouth. This is the great tribulation that is coming. Those who have faith and keep the commandments of YHWH will be saved.
The black woman is this world. The young man who appeared is the Son of YHWH. The old woman is the Church. She becomes younger as the elect repent and walk in righteousness.
Repent therefore while the tower is still being built. The Lord is patient and waits for His people to turn from their evil ways.
The Shepherd said: “Keep the commandments of YHWH and you will be saved. Do not be double-minded. Believe that all things are possible with YHWH. Walk in simplicity and innocence. Do not speak evil. Love one another. Help the poor and the widow. Do not be anxious about riches. Trust in YHWH who provides for all.”
Hear then the commandments and parables of the Shepherd. Keep them with all your heart that you may live unto YHWH and inherit eternal life.
I Hermas a slave sold to Rhoda in Rome saw a vision while praying in the country. The Shepherd appeared to me and revealed many things concerning repentance and the building of the Church which is the tower.

While I was walking in the country, I saw an old woman seated on a chair reading a book. She called me by name and said: “Hermas, greet the brothers and sisters in the name of the Lord.”
I was a slave sold to Rhoda in Rome. After many years I saw her again and loved her as a sister.
The Shepherd of Hermas: The commands, parables, and visions given to Hermas by the Shepherd, the Angel of Repentance.
This is the book which the Shepherd revealed to Hermas, a former slave, concerning repentance and the building of the Church.
