TITUS

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.

CH3

Grace be with you all. Amen.
Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way. See that they lack nothing. And let our people learn to devote themselves to good works so as to help cases of urgent need and not be unfruitful.
When I send Artemas to you or Tychicus be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis for I have decided to spend the winter there.
Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities to be obedient to be ready for every good work to speak evil of no one to avoid quarreling to be gentle and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish disobedient led astray slaves to various passions and pleasures passing our days in malice and envy hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of YHWH our Savior appeared He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness but according to His own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit whom He poured out on us richly through Yeshua the Anointed our Savior so that being justified by His grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The saying is trustworthy and I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in YHWH may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people. But avoid foolish controversies genealogies dissensions and quarrels about the law for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a person who stirs up division after warning him once and then twice have nothing more to do with him knowing that such a person is warped and sinful he is self-condemned.

CH2

For the grace of YHWH has appeared bringing salvation for all people training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled upright and godly lives in the present age waiting for our blessed hope the appearing of the glory of our great YHWH and Savior Yeshua the Anointed who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for Himself a people for His own possession zealous for good works. Declare these things. Exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one disregard you.
Bondservants are to be submissive to their own masters in everything. They are to be well-pleasing not argumentative not pilfering but showing all good faith so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of YHWH our Savior.
Older men are to be sober-minded dignified self-controlled sound in faith in love and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good and so train the young women to love their husbands and children to be self-controlled pure working at home kind and submissive to their own husbands that the word of YHWH may not be reviled. Likewise urge the younger men to be self-controlled. Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works and in your teaching show integrity dignity and sound speech that cannot be condemned so that an opponent may be put to shame having nothing evil to say about us.
But as for you teach what accords with sound doctrine.

CH1

They profess to know YHWH but they deny Him by their works. They are detestable disobedient unfit for any good work.
For there are many who are insubordinate empty talkers and deceivers especially those of the circumcision party. They must be silenced since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach. One of the Cretans a prophet of their own said “Cretans are always liars evil beasts lazy gluttons.” This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply that they may be sound in the faith not devoting themselves to Jewish myths and the commands of people who turn away from the truth.
For an overseer as YHWH’s steward must be above reproach not arrogant not quick-tempered not a drunkard not violent not greedy for gain but hospitable a lover of good self-controlled upright holy and disciplined. He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.
This is why I left you in Crete so that you might put what remained into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you.
To Titus my true child in a common faith: Grace and peace from YHWH the Father and the Anointed Yeshua our Savior.
Paul a servant of YHWH and an apostle of Yeshua the Anointed for the sake of the faith of YHWH’s elect and their knowledge of the truth which accords with godliness in hope of eternal life which YHWH who never lies promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in His word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of YHWH our Savior.
