TRANSFIGURATION / DORMITION OF MARY

YHWH (YHYYH) Codex

FULL TEXT REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH and praising the Anointed, carrying the good news that the holy Virgin had been taken up in glory. And a great light remained in the place where her body had lain, and the fragrance of heaven filled the air for many days.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in light and taken up into the heavenly realms. She stood at the right hand of her Son in the kingdom of YHWH, clothed with the sun and crowned with stars. And all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And the apostles opened the tomb on the third day and found it empty. The body of the holy Mother had been assumed into heaven. And they marveled greatly and gave glory to YHWH.
Then a great fragrance filled the house and the Virgin appeared to them transfigured in heavenly light saying: “Rejoice my beloved sons, for I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I go to prepare a place for you in the kingdom of YHWH.”
And when the third day came, the apostles gathered at the tomb with great reverence. And they saw a great light descending from heaven and heard voices of angels singing. And the body of the holy Virgin was taken up into glory.
And the holy Virgin blessed the apostles one by one and said: “Peace be with you my beloved children. I go to my Son who has called me.” And her face shone with divine light and she gave up her spirit in peace.
And the apostles carried her holy body with great honor and psalms to the tomb in Gethsemane. And they watched over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin called all the apostles together and said: “The time of my departure has come. I go to my Son in the heavenly kingdom. Do not mourn but rejoice.”
And when the day of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth by clouds and brought to her presence. And she spoke to them words of comfort and blessing.

