TREATISE ON THE RESURRECTION 
– 
YHWH Codex

FULL REVERSE SCAN 
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to Nag Hammadi Coptic/Greek fragments with YHWH framework alignment.


Many greetings to you and your brothers in the name of Yeshua the Anointed. I pray that you may rejoice in the truth and that the fullness of the light may rest upon you. Farewell in peace. The grace of the Lord be with your spirit. Amen.
This is the way of truth. This is the spiritual resurrection. Those who receive this teaching will not taste death but will rise in the light and become perfect.
The resurrection is no illusion. It is the revelation of what is. The world is the illusion. The resurrection is the truth that overcomes death. The Savior has shown us the way. The resurrection is the return to the Pleroma. It is the victory over the rulers of darkness. It is the awakening of the divine spark within.
The body is perishable but the spirit is eternal. The one who has put on the new man is no longer bound by the old. The resurrection is not of the flesh but of the spirit. It is the restoration of the perfect image.
The Savior came to reveal this mystery. He showed that death has no power over those who know the truth. He destroyed death by His own rising. He opened the way for all who belong to Him.
Do not doubt the resurrection Rheginos. It is certain. It has already happened to the Savior and it will happen to you. The one who knows this lives already in the light even while in the body.
The world says the resurrection is future but the truth says it is now. The one who has received the knowledge has already risen. He has passed from death to life. He is free from the bondage of the rulers.
The resurrection is the revelation of those who have risen. It is the truth. It is no illusion. It is the spiritual resurrection. The world is an illusion. The resurrection is the revelation of the truth. The Savior has revealed the resurrection to us. The resurrection is the way to the Father. The resurrection is the way to life. The resurrection is the way to immortality. The resurrection is the way to the Pleroma. The resurrection is the way to the Light. The resurrection is the way to the Eternal. The resurrection is the way to YHWH.
The perfect ones shall inherit the Light. The rulers of the darkness shall be cast down and the Light shall return to its root. The Pleroma shall be filled and the deficiency shall be no more. This is the mystery of the resurrection.
The Savior said: “The resurrection is not an illusion. It is the revelation of the truth. The world is an illusion. The resurrection is the truth. The resurrection is the way to the Father. The resurrection is the way to life. The resurrection is the way to immortality. The resurrection is the way to the Pleroma. The resurrection is the way to the Light. The resurrection is the way to the Eternal. The resurrection is the way to YHWH.”
The resurrection is the revelation of those who have risen. The resurrection is the truth. It is no illusion. It is the spiritual resurrection. The world is an illusion. The resurrection is the revelation of the truth. The Savior has revealed the resurrection to us. The resurrection is the way to the Father. The resurrection is the way to life. The resurrection is the way to immortality. The resurrection is the way to the Pleroma. The resurrection is the way to the Light. The resurrection is the way to the Eternal. The resurrection is the way to YHWH.
The Savior said: “The resurrection is not an illusion. It is the revelation of the truth. The world is an illusion. The resurrection is the truth. The resurrection is the way to the Father. The resurrection is the way to life. The resurrection is the way to immortality. The resurrection is the way to the Pleroma. The resurrection is the way to the Light. The resurrection is the way to the Eternal. The resurrection is the way to YHWH.”
