TRANSFIGURATION / DORMITION OF MARY

YHWH(YHYYH) Codex

FULL TEXT REVERSE COHERENT SCAN
Codex YHWH (YHYYH) w/ Numerical Letter Differentiation
Numerical Note: YHWH (יהוה) = 26 base. YHYYH variant = 36 intensified (doubled Yod for covenant/redemptive emphasis). Literal root fidelity to original oldest manuscript traditions with YHWH framework.

Book 7

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH with psalms and great joy, proclaiming to all nations the glorious transfiguration and assumption of the holy Virgin Mother of the Anointed.
Then the Virgin Mary was fully transfigured in divine light and taken up bodily into the highest heaven. She stood at the right hand of her Son in eternal glory, clothed with the sun, crowned with twelve stars, and the moon under her feet, while all the heavenly powers sang praises to YHWH.
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day they found it empty. The holy body had been assumed into heaven in glory. And they fell on their faces and worshiped YHWH with fear and exceeding joy.
Then a great light and heavenly fragrance filled the place. The Virgin appeared to the apostles transfigured in glory saying: “Rejoice my beloved sons. I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I go to prepare a place for you and intercede for you before the throne of YHWH.”
And the apostles carried the holy body with great honor, singing psalms and hymns, to the tomb in Gethsemane, watching over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin blessed each apostle individually and said: “Peace be with you my children. I go to my Son who has called me. Remain in love and unity until we meet again in the kingdom of YHWH.”
And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds by the power of YHWH and brought before her. And she spoke to them final words of comfort, blessing, and eternal hope.

Book 6

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH and praising the Anointed, carrying the good news that the holy Virgin had been taken up in glory. And a great light remained in the place where her body had lain, and the fragrance of heaven filled the air for many days.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in light and taken up into the heavenly realms. She stood at the right hand of her Son in the kingdom of YHWH, clothed with the sun and crowned with stars. And all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And the apostles opened the tomb on the third day and found it empty. The body of the holy Mother had been assumed into heaven. And they marveled greatly and gave glory to YHWH.
Then a great fragrance filled the house and the Virgin appeared to them transfigured in heavenly light saying: “Rejoice my beloved sons, for I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I go to prepare a place for you in the kingdom of YHWH.”
And when the third day came, the apostles gathered at the tomb with great reverence. And they saw a great light descending from heaven and heard voices of angels singing. And the body of the holy Virgin was taken up into glory.
And the holy Virgin blessed the apostles one by one and said: “Peace be with you my beloved children. I go to my Son who has called me.” And her face shone with divine light and she gave up her spirit in peace.
And the apostles carried her holy body with great honor and psalms to the tomb in Gethsemane. And they watched over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin called all the apostles together and said: “The time of my departure has come. I go to my Son in the heavenly kingdom. Do not mourn but rejoice.”
And when the day of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth by clouds and brought to her presence. And she spoke to them words of comfort and blessing.

Book 5

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH with great joy, proclaiming to all the nations the glorious assumption of the holy Virgin. And the fragrance of paradise remained in the place for many days as a testimony.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in unspeakable light and taken up bodily into heaven. She stood at the right hand of her Son, clothed with the sun, crowned with twelve stars, and the moon under her feet. All the heavenly powers sang praises to YHWH.
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day, they found it empty. The holy body of the Mother of the Anointed had been assumed into glory. And they fell on their faces and worshiped YHWH.
Then a great light and heavenly fragrance filled the house. The Virgin appeared to the apostles transfigured and said: “Rejoice, my beloved sons. I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. Do not mourn but rejoice, for I intercede for you before the throne of YHWH.”
And the apostles carried the holy body with psalms and great reverence to the tomb in Gethsemane, watching over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin blessed each of the apostles and said: “Peace be with you. I go to my Son who has called me. Do not be sorrowful, for where I am you will also be.”
And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds and brought before her. And she spoke to them words of comfort and eternal blessing.

Book 4

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH with psalms and great joy, proclaiming everywhere the glorious assumption of the holy Virgin Mother.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in divine light and taken up bodily into the heavenly kingdom. She stood at the right hand of her Son, clothed with glory, and all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day they found it empty. The holy body had been assumed into heaven. And they worshiped YHWH with fear and great rejoicing.
Then a brilliant light and heavenly fragrance filled the place. The Virgin appeared to them in glory saying: “Rejoice my beloved sons. I have been taken up to my Son. I go to prepare a place for you in the kingdom of YHWH. Do not mourn but rejoice.”
And the apostles carried the holy body with great honor and singing of psalms to the tomb in Gethsemane, watching over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin blessed each apostle individually and said farewell: “Peace be with you. I go to my Son who has called me. Remain in unity and love until I see you again in the kingdom.”
And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were miraculously gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds and brought to her presence. And she spoke to them words of comfort and blessing.

Book 3

And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds by the power of YHWH and brought into her presence. And the holy Virgin spoke to them words of comfort, blessing, and eternal peace, saying: “My beloved sons, the time has come for me to go to my Son. Remain in love and unity until we meet again in the kingdom of YHWH.”
Then the holy Virgin blessed each of the apostles one by one, laying her hands upon them and giving them final instructions. And her face shone with heavenly light as she prepared to depart.
And the apostles carried the holy body with great honor, singing psalms and hymns, to the tomb in Gethsemane. There they watched over it with fasting, prayer, and reverence.
Then a brilliant light and heavenly fragrance filled the house. The Virgin appeared to them transfigured in glory, saying: “Rejoice my children, for I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I intercede for you before the throne of YHWH.”
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day, they found it empty. The holy body of the Mother of the Anointed had been assumed into heaven in glory. And they fell down and worshiped YHWH with great joy.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in unspeakable divine light and taken up bodily into the heavenly realms. She stood at the right hand of her Son, clothed with glory, while all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH and proclaiming the glorious assumption of the holy Virgin to all who would hear.

Book 2

And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH with great joy and proclaiming the glorious assumption of the holy Virgin to all the believers.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in divine light and taken up bodily into heaven. She stood at the right hand of her Son in glory, clothed with the sun and crowned with stars, while all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day they found it empty. The holy body of the Mother of the Anointed had been assumed into glory. And they worshiped YHWH with fear and great rejoicing.
Then a brilliant light and heavenly fragrance filled the place. The Virgin appeared to the apostles transfigured in glory saying: “Rejoice my beloved sons. I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I go to prepare a place for you in the kingdom of YHWH.”
And the apostles carried the holy body with psalms and great reverence to the tomb in Gethsemane, watching over it with fasting and prayer.
Then the holy Virgin blessed each of the apostles and said: “Peace be with you my children. I go to my Son who has called me. Remain in love and unity until we meet again in the kingdom.”
And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds by the power of YHWH and brought before her. And she spoke to them words of comfort and final blessing.

Book 1

And when the hour of her departure drew near, the apostles were gathered from the ends of the earth upon clouds by the power of YHWH and brought before the holy Virgin. And she spoke to them words of comfort, blessing, and final peace, saying: “My beloved sons, the time has come for me to go to my Son. Remain in love and unity until we meet again in the kingdom of YHWH.”
Then the holy Virgin blessed each of the apostles one by one, laying her hands upon them and giving them her final words. And her face shone with heavenly light as she prepared to depart this world.
And the apostles carried the holy body with great honor and singing of psalms to the tomb in Gethsemane. There they watched over it with fasting, prayer, and deep reverence.
Then a brilliant light and heavenly fragrance filled the house. The Virgin appeared to them transfigured in glory, saying: “Rejoice my beloved children, for I have been taken up to my Son and your Lord. I intercede for you before the throne of YHWH.”
And when the apostles opened the tomb on the third day, they found it empty. The holy body of the Mother of the Anointed had been assumed into heaven in glory. And they fell down and worshiped YHWH with great joy.
Then the Virgin Mary was transfigured in unspeakable divine light and taken up bodily into the heavenly realms. She stood at the right hand of her Son, clothed with glory, while all the heavenly host sang praises to YHWH.
And the apostles returned to Jerusalem glorifying YHWH and proclaiming the glorious assumption of the holy Virgin to all who would hear.
